@summary
preheat the broiler.

@summary
rinse the tilapia.

@summary
mix together the lemon juice, butter, and black pepper.

@summary
transfer the tilapia to the broiler pan.

@summary
broil the tilapia fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, flipping once.place the pan on the top rack of the oven, no further than 4 inches (10 cm) from the top heating element.

@summary
sprinkle the tilapia with parmesan cheese and continue broiling.

@summary
serve warm.
@article
 Lightly coat a broiler pan with nonstick cooking spray.


Allow the broiler to preheat for a full 5 to 10 minutes.
Many broilers only have an "on" setting, but some have separate "high" and "low" settings. For this recipe, preheat the broiler to "high."
Since tilapia is lower in fat than meat or poultry, it will not produce much melted fat. As a result, the cooking spray is necessary to prevent it from sticking to the broiler rack inside the broiler pan.
 Remove any sticky residue by lightly rinsing the tilapia fillets under cool, running water.


Pat completely dry with clean paper towels.
 Combine the ingredients in a small dish.


You can also add other seasonings, like chopped herbs or onion powder, if desired. Use no more than 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) concentrated powders, 1 tsp (5 ml) dried herbs, or 1 Tbsp (15 ml) fresh herbs.
 Place the fillets on the broiler pan rack in an even single layer. Coat with the the lemon-butter mixture.
 At the 2 or 3 minute mark, flip the fillets and continue broiling.


Use a fish spatula or other flat, heat-resistant spatula to turn the fish. Do not use tongs since they may cause the fish to break apart.
Turning the fillets is an important step because it ensures even cooking on both sides.
 After sprinkling the fillets with the cheese, broil them for an additional 2 minutes or until the cheese is melted and slightly browned.


The fish must also be done at this point. Tilapia is done once it turns completely white and can be easily flaked apart with a fork.
Note that the Parmesan cheese is only optional. If you do not use it, however, you will still need to cook the fish for the additional 2 minutes.
 Allow the fish to cool slightly, 2 or 3 minutes, before serving.

