@summary
gather the fondant and knead it until it becomes smooth.

@summary
shape the balls of fondant into solid egg shapes about the size of a large grape and keep it covered with cling film.

@summary
using a small skewer, fork or toothpick, dip the eggs into the cooled melted chocolate and twirl or turn the egg very gently in the air above the bowl to coat.

@summary
when the chocolate has set, it will no longer be as glossy and a thin coating will not take long at all.

@summary
alternate method: if soft fondant is not to your household's taste, buy small ordinary hollow chocolate easter eggs and prepare some buttercream icing from one of the recipes in or according to your own recipe, (marshmallow is another good filling).
@article
 If you wish to flavor the fondant, you can knead in flavorings to taste (such as cocoa powder, instant coffee powder, custard powder, etc).
 You can press the fondant into small egg molds (dusted with cornflour as per above fondant egg method) for a neat finish, but this does take much longer as you will need to have two sides of the mold to press the fondant into shape. Cover it with cling film and refrigerate until firm (approximately 1-2 hours)., Allow the excess to drip off. Keep twirling the egg gently until it has just set.

The cold fondant and the cooler melted chocolate means it will set faster, but if the chocolate is too cold, it will provide a really thick coating. It is recommended to have the chocolate warm enough to give a thin coating just to cover.
 Place onto a tray lined with baking parchment and store in a cool place. If you quickly dip and then place the egg directly on a tray, the chocolate will run and set flat on one side and will not look as neat.

These can be decorated when chocolate is still soft by rolling them in crushed toasted nuts or dessicated coconut (or even dusted with cocoa powder or grated chocolate). Alternatively, when they are cold, you can also pipe decorations as per the previous method if desired, or cover with gold or silver leaf. If you wish to go further, you can double dip into a different colored chocolate by melting white chocolate with a little powdered food coloring.
 Carefully carve a small hole on the base of the egg using a sharp knife or a warmed skewer large enough to fit a piping nozzle into. Fill a piping bag or a large syringe with buttercream and fill the egg until full and then seal with a little melted chocolate to plug the hole.

Skilled artisans can 3/4 fill the egg with white buttercream, then pipe the remainder with a yellow buttercream to make an egg white and yolk.
The buttercream eggs can be messy things to eat, but chocolate and buttercream is usually win-win (except for for the diet...). For adult-only eggs, a little liqueur added to the cream is a popular touch.
These are best made the same day that they are eaten.

