@summary
visit a local post office and obtain a certified mail form 3800.

@summary
remove the backing and place the sticker along the top edge of the envelope you are mailing, directly to the right of the return address area.

@summary
pay the appropriate postage for the specified type of mail delivery.

@summary
decide if you want to purchase restricted delivery service.

@summary
determine receipt service.

@summary
keep records.

@summary
view the delivery information.
@article



This form contains a green and white sticker that includes a barcode, which will allow you to track your mail through the USPS.
The form also contains a perforated receipt, which serves as proof that you mailed the item.
Write all of the required information on the form, including the recipient’s name and address.;
,


Make sure to leave room on the top right portion of the envelope to apply correct postage.
On a package, the sticker can be placed to the left of the address area.
 Then pay for additional services, including a fee for USPS Certified Mail ($3.35USD as of 1/22/2017 and Return receipt (PS Form 3811) cost $2.75).


Both first-class and priority mail can be sent via certified mail.
First-class mail includes envelopes and packages that weigh 13 ounces or less.
Priority mail service offers delivery in a timely and expedited fashion, generally within two to three days.



Restricted delivery service guarantees that a specified person receives and signs for the certified mail.
If you select this option, you need to endorse, or initial, the column on the certified mail form that is marked for this service.
 Choose whether or not you want to pay for return receipt service, which provides you with a receipt that gives you the certified mail recipient’s signature.


You can choose to obtain this receipt via e-mail, with a PDF image of the signature included, or as a physical receipt via snail mail.
As with the restricted delivery service, you need to initial the column on the certified mail form marked for this service.
 Collect and keep your receipt that has been stamped with the mailing date. A number that is unique to your mailing allows you to confirm the mail delivery online.


Keep all documentation for the mailing in a safe place.
 Check online at the postal service’s Web site to see when and to whom the certified mail was delivered. The recipient must sign for the mail upon delivery, and the post office keeps a record of this signature.

