@summary
be aware of potential complications of zika.the biggest risk of a zika infection is not the infection, it is the potential complications that can develop as a result of the infection.

@summary
recognize symptoms of gbs.gbs has been linked as a potential complication of the zika virus, but there is not yet a proven link between the two.

@summary
watch for signs of microcephaly in newborns.microcephaly in newborns has also been linked to the zika infection in pregnant women (who then pass it on to their fetus in the womb).

@summary
keep in mind that there is no cure or vaccine for zika.however, gbs is treatable, so see a doctor as soon as possible if you think you have gbs.
@article
 Although complications only develop in a small minority of people, they can be severe. The two main complications that are suspected to be linked to the Zika virus are:


Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS), which is a neurological condition that can lead to potential paralysis.
Microcephaly, which is a birth defect that develops when women who are pregnant become infected with Zika. Infants born with microcephaly have an abnormally small head and may have developmental delays as well. Some infants may even die as a result of this birth defect.
 Still, it is important to know the signs and symptoms of GBS if you have Zika. GBS is an autoimmune disorder that may occur following a viral infection such as Zika. It affects your nervous system by damaging the nerve coverings. Symptoms include:Numbness in the lower extremities such as the feet, lower legs, and hands
Difficulty moving
Numbness and/or paralysis that gradually moves upwards
Difficult breathing if the paralysis moves to the chest area

, Microcephaly refers to an abnormally small head. This condition can lead to developmental delays, intellectual disabilities, and, in severe cases, it may even lead to death.


When your baby is born, the doctors will take routine measurements of head circumference (both at birth, as well as at progressive intervals throughout your baby's growth). It is through abnormally small head circumference measurements that a doctor may diagnose your baby with microcephaly.
Microcephaly is defined as a head circumference of less than 42cm at full growth.Doctors can use age-based growth charts to determine whether your baby's head circumference fits into the normal range at each developmental stage.
If your baby is diagnosed microcephaly, it may be a sign that you have recently been infected with the Zika virus.
 Microcephaly cannot be treated, but there are support strategies that may help your child reach as many developmental milestones as possible.

