@summary
when using verbs that contain infinitives ending in -er, we remove the final letter "s" from the -tu form of the present tense for the imperative, unless it is followed by the pronouns -y or -en.

@summary
there are three verbs that are irregular in the imperative, taking their imperative from the present subjunctive form.

@summary
when you want to form the negative imperative form, simply put -ne in front of the imperative and -pas or an alternative after it.

@summary
when using object pronouns with the imperative, the pronouns follow the verb and are hyphenated.

@summary
however, with the negative imperative, the pronouns will precede verb, as in these examples:

@summary
ne lui dites rien.

@summary
with reflexive verbs, the reflexive pronoun follows the imperative, and -te changes to -toi.

@summary
just as we saw earlier with object pronouns, however, in the negative imperative of reflexive verbs, the reflexive pronoun precedes the verb, and -te is used, not -toi.
@article
 Here are some examples:

Regarde; (Look) (To those you would normally address as "tu")
Regardons; (Let's look)
Regardez; (Look) (To those you would normally address as "vous")



 

;
, For example:


Être (To be): Sois, Soyons, Soyez. (Ex; "Sois sage" means "Be good".)
Avoir (To have): Aie, Ayons, Ayez. (Ex; "Ayons de la patience" means "Let's have patience".)
Savoir (To know): Sache, Sachons, Sachez. (Ex; "Sachez vos amis" means "Know your friends".)

, For example:


Ne va pas au parc. (Don't go to the park.)
Ne mangeons plus de viande. (Let's not eat any more meat.)
N'oubliez jamais ce que je vous ai dit. (Never forget what I have told you.)

, Some examples:


Donne-le-lui! (Give it to him!)
Achetons-en. (Let's buy some.)
Vas-y. (Go there.) Remember the letter "s" is kept when followed by -y or -en.

Parlez-moi! (Speak to me!) Notice the emphatic "moi" is used rather than "me"; -toi would be used instead of -te.
 (Don't tell him anything.)
Ne nous oubliez jamais. (Never forget us.)
Ne leur en donne pas. (Don't give them any (of it).)
N'y va plus. (Don't go there any more.)
Ne le prenons pas. (Let's not take it.)

, For example:


Habille-toi vite! (Get dressed quickly!)
Promenons-nous dans les bois. (Let's go for a walk in the woods.)
Couchez-vous, les enfants. (Go to bed, children.)







, Here are a few examples:


Ne te blesse pas. (Don't hurt yourself.)
Ne nous trompons pas. (Let's not be mistaken.)
Ne vous moquez pas d'eux. (Don't make fun of them.)

