@summary
check for the following symptoms that can indicate that you are allergic to seafood.

@summary
seek immediate medical attention if you experience any of the following severe symptoms that indicate anaphylactic attack.

@summary
refrain from eating anything belonging to the crustaceans family.

@summary
avoid eating mollusks, since these contain high amounts of protein that triggers allergic symptoms.

@summary
find out what you are most allergic to.

@summary
be careful when dining out.

@summary
take medication if your allergy worsens or if you come into contact with seafood items by mistake.
@article



Itchy skin, eczema or hives and bumps on your skin
Swollen face, lips, throat or tongue
Breathing problems related to nasal congestion or wheezing
Stomach aches
Nausea
Digestive problems leading to diarrhea or vomiting
Feeling dizzy or as if you are about to faint
Tingles in your mouth;
,


Swelling or lumpy throat that is restricting your breathing passage.
Shock attack with sudden decrease in blood pressure.
Fast pulse.
Fainting or getting extremely dizzy.
 For example, don't eat anything containing crabs, crayfish, lobster, prawns or shrimp.
 There are 3 main categories of mollusks that you must avoid.


Bivalves: examples include clams, mussels, oysters and scallops).
Gastropods: examples include abalone, escargot (snails), limpets and periwinkles.
Cephalopods: examples include cuttlefish, octopus and squid.
 You may be more or less allergy to certain types of seafood. Doctors can perform medical tests to inform you about which seafood categories you must avoid most.


Skin test: in a skin test the doctor will prick your skin after exposing it to different sources of protein. A bump in your skin will indicate that you are allergic and the size of the bump shows your sensitivity to that protein source.
Blood test: a sample of your blood can be tested in a medical laboratory to measure your sensitive to different shellfish protein sources.
 The air, oil or cutlery at a restaurant may contain proteins from seafood even if you order a meal that does not contain seafood.



Antihistamines can be taken if you experience light itchiness or other mild reactions to seafood. Antihistamines are generally very effective for reducing discomfort and preventing early symptoms from worsening.
Take the emergency epinephrine injection if you experience severe seafood allergy symptoms. This releases adrenaline in your body that helps it fight against the allergy attack. Administer the injection in the presence of a health care professional if possible.

