@summary
choose somewhere to turn into your animal shelter.

@summary
set up an area for housing the animals.

@summary
make a reception area.

@summary
set up the vet table.

@summary
organize a few bowls for food and water.

@summary
choose the animal shelter animals from among your existing toys.

@summary
decide who is going to be playing.

@summary
act out different scenarios that might happen at an animal shelter.

@summary
pack everything away after playing.
@article
 This may be a part of your room, a playroom or some other area where you're allowed to play.;
, Use boxes and other containers to act as the houses or cages for the animals.
 Add a front desk area where you can greet people and talk to them about the animals. You can add a phone, a clipboard for a list and a pen.
 Place vet instruments such as a stethoscope, a thermometer and a worming syringe on the table. You can make these things out of cardboard or simply print images of them off the internet, cut them out and stick them onto cardboard.


You can use a toy doctor's kit; use the instruments in it for the animals.
A flashlight is useful for looking in the animal's eyes.
Have some bandages for boo boos.
 You can make food from paper or cut-outs from magazines and junk mail, or you can simply pretend that the food exists.
 You can use stuffed animals, toy models or any other toy animals that are realistic enough to work as animals.
 It might be you and a sibling or two, or perhaps some friends. Each of you will need to take a role, so choose one before playing. Some of the roles include:


People bringing in or wanting animals
The receptionist
Animal carer
Vet or vet nurse
Anyone else you think might be part of the shelter.
 For example:


Someone brings in a stray animal and wants to know what to do with it
Someone brings in an injured animal that needs immediate attention
Animal feeding time
Animal grooming time
Cleaning out the animal housing
Someone comes to adopt an animal
The media comes to do an interview about the animal shelter
The animal shelter wins an award, etc.
 If you want to play it again, keep the items in a box or a cupboard so that you can find them easily again.

