@summary
choose a title.your title should express the specific topic or methodology you’re publishing about.

@summary
list the authors.directly following the title, you should list the author or authors.

@summary
edit your abstract.when the medical abstract is completed, your peers will be looking for originality, scientific merit, clinical significance, and whether it is appropriate for the audience of educated medical staff professionals for which it is intended.
@article
 Don’t select a title that announces results. This may bias readers against your conclusions or discoveries. Instead, select a title that is objective and describes the problem your research explores.


For instance, “New Corticosteroids Provide Asthma Relief” is a poor abstract title.
“Corticosteroid Treatment in Asthmatic Patients,” on the other hand, is a good title.
Don’t use puns or jokes in your title. This may make your work seem trivial and unimportant.
 Guidelines specific to the publication or organization will dictate how the authors’ names should be listed. Some abstracts place the first name after the last (“Smith, John”) while others place the first and last names in their natural order (“John Smith”).


Some abstracts expect you to list all authors in alphabetical order according to their last names.
Other publications might expect you to list authors of increasing seniority toward the end of the author list. In this arrangement, the study’s lead researcher or team mentor would be listed last.
You might also need to list each author’s credentials. For instance, you might need to write “John Smith MD”
The title and authors should be listed at the top of the abstract, and before the main information of the abstract.



Additionally, remember to proofread your work. Spelling errors, typos and grammatical mistakes will discredit your hard work and research.
It might help to read the abstract out loud to yourself to make sure it sounds right before submitting it. Ask a colleague to read over it for you to ensure it is easy to understand and makes sense.
After you’ve edited the abstract, submit it to the appropriate journal, professional society, or conference committee for approval.

