@summary
develop a background story for your character.this will help bring your character to life.

@summary
define the personality traits of your character.

@summary
know your character’s motives.during a game, your character will be faced with one situation after another, and each situation will require a choice.

@summary
ensure that your character continually develops.as the game progresses, your character gains knowledge and experience by going through trials, defeating enemies, overcoming challenges and completing quests.
@article
 Define fundamentals like your age, where you’re from and where you’re going. Are you on a mission? Who are your parents? Do you have a significant other or children? If so, where are they? Are you wealthy or poor? Do you work or practice a trade? Does your character have a destiny?Establishing the basic elements of a character's backstory is incredibly important, but you can get far more detailed and specific if you’d like.
The backstory can be as rich as you desire.;
, Avoid basing your character’s personality traits on your own, which is a common pitfall. The experience is much richer if you create traits objectively.Ask yourself questions like: Is your character good, evil, or a complicated mix of both? How about aggressive or defensive? Brave? Kind? Is your character impulsive or does he or she act with common sense? Is he/she charming? Despicable? Trustworthy?


Allow your character to have flaws.The game will be more interesting when your character is realistic and imperfect.
 These choices dictate where the game goes. You will need to define what your character’s motives are in order to make appropriate and realistic choices.


For example, imagine a character who has run away from home after being shunned by his father for being a thief. He meets a group of distinguished adventurers in a tavern and is invited to join them. He must make a decision.
After being shamed by his father, the character wants to gain some prestige and respect so that he can return home one day unashamed. This is his motive.
It would make sense for this character to choose to join this group of adventurers, since it could provide opportunities to gain respect and redeem himself.
 These events should contribute to the development of your character in a realistic way.For example, after defeating a string of enemies, it would make sense for your character to feel more empowered, make bolder choices and take on challenges that he/she wouldn’t have tried at the beginning of the game.
Think about how new knowledge, experience, and skills might influence your character’s choices moving forward.

