@summary
pay attention to what you eat and ensuring that you are getting adequate nutrition.

@summary
keep your joints and muscles stretched and cared for.

@summary
make sure you have supervision when performing stretches.

@summary
remember to include both the positive and negative motions when you stretch.

@summary
think positive when you're becoming flexible.

@summary
remember you must always be patient.

@summary
do stretches every day (for at least 10 to 15 minutes) and work at it progressively.
@article



Maintain a healthy diet. Eat more green leafy vegetables and increase your protein and calcium (drinking milk is one easy way to increase your intake of both of these).
Every morning, eat a good, healthy breakfast.
Drink plenty of water. Since your body is mostly water, you have to be hydrated.
The most important thing is to balance everything. If you don't, you will not be completely flexible.;
, Start your workout with low-impact stretches and work up to a full stretch workout. Later, wind down your routine with low-impact exercising.
 If you have no idea what you are doing you'll undoubtedly injure yourself. Most martial arts schools and gymnastics classes have extensive programs and teachers available. Check them out.
 Keep it symmetrical. If you are stretching your left, stretch out your right too. If you are bending forward, bend backwards too.


If you don't feel a little strain in your muscles, you're not doing it in a way that will prove beneficial. A little strain is normal.
 It takes time but you will get there. Tell yourself motivating things, such as: "I know I can do this!"

, The key to being flexible is waiting calmly.
 This is important if you want to become flexible! Remember, you can't become flexible overnight. Work at the rate you are comfortable with, and then slowly increase the difficulty (length of time, length of reach or both).


When you are doing stretches, wear comfortable gear, such as tank top and shorts, leotard, and so forth.
Do warm ups before beginning stretches. One way to warm up would to be to do a decent amount of jumping jacks.
Starting with difficult and advanced stretches is dangerous and ill-advised for anyone. Begin from the easier stretches, then move on to the harder ones.


The following sections provide a list of basic, good stretching exercises for your body. Be careful, take them slowly and become comfortable with them before pushing yourself.

