@summary
tell him why you appreciate him.this may seem obvious, and you may think it is obvious to your partner, but it certainly won’t hurt to explain the reasons why you appreciate him.it may seem silly, but the little things can make all the difference in a relationship.

@summary
give him compliments.

@summary
become aware of the little things your boyfriend does for you.

@summary
ask him about his day/week.when you see your boyfriend (either when he comes home or when you see him), ask him to tell you about his day/week.
@article



For example, maybe many of your past boyfriends were always late for dates with you, but your current boyfriend is always on time. Explain to him how good it makes you feel when he shows up on time, and how much you appreciate it.
 Find something that you really enjoy in your partner. It can be something physical, something about his personality, or some other talent he may have. Tell him how nice you find that quality.For example, if you find his eyes to be very handsome, tell him that. Tell him what it is that you like about them.
You can also do this with something he is wearing. For example, if there is a shirt that he looks particularly handsome in, tell him!
When giving compliments, be sincere! This means not over-doing too! While it’s nice to compliment often receiving the same compliment from the same person over and over is tiresome and can even seem insincere. Try to find different aspects of your boyfriend to compliment.
 It’s easy to take for granted the smaller things your partner does. For example, maybe he always takes out the trash before it overflows. Acknowledge this by saying how much you appreciate that he always takes care of this so you don’t have to., Listen to what he says. Ask questions about the things he says. If he complains about a problem he is having, ask him if you can help him resolve it.


Try not to give unsolicited advice in these conversations. If your boyfriend is complaining about how he dislikes something or doesn’t know what to do about something, sympathize with him first. If you feel that you have something to say about it, ask if he would like your opinion.

