@summary
try over-the-counter painkillers.one of the quickest ways to diminish your symptoms of rsi is to opt for an over-the-counter painkiller.

@summary
get an injection.a less common medical option (normally reserved for more severe cases) is to get a steroid injection in the area where you are experiencing pain.

@summary
book an appointment with a physiotherapist.a physiotherapist (or physical therapist) can suggest exercises to strengthen and/or relax the affected muscles.

@summary
be aware of your expected recovery time.
@article
 Common choices are Acetaminophen (Tylenol), which helps to mask the pain, or Ibuprofen (Advil), which helps with both pain and inflammation. The benefit of over-the-counter painkillers is that they can ease your pain and thus allow you to remain productive in the workplace. The downside, however, is that easing your pain with medication does not indicate true healing of your RSI.


Additional medical options to consider include muscle relaxants and/or tricyclic anti-depressant medications (which, in addition to treating symptoms of depression, can be very helpful at easing nerve-related pain). Speak to your doctor if you would like to consider these options.
 This may or may not be accompanied by an injection of a local anesthetic. Speak to your doctor to see if your RSI is severe enough to warrant this treatment.
 He or she can also provide insight as to how best to modify your posture at work to minimize the strain on the areas that are causing you the most pain. Additional treatments offered by physiotherapists include:


Ultrasound treatments
Infrared treatments
TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation) which blocks pain signals using a mild electrical current.
 Most people suffering from RSI recover within 3-6 months.The speed of recovery will depend on factors such as your ability to take time away from the computer, the severity of your underlying injury, and your willingness to comply with the recommendations of your physiotherapist and/or physician.

