@summary
turn off the power to the existing light.

@summary
remove the old ceiling light.

@summary
inspect the wiring in the outlet box.

@summary
inspect the outlet box to ensure that it is securely fastened.

@summary
pre-assemble as much of the ceiling fixture on the ground as possible.move all wires to 1 side of the electrical box.mount the crossbar to the electrical box.

@summary
connect the wires as they were in the old fixture.tuck the wires into the electrical box.

@summary
align the canopy with the mounting screws and tighten.insert lightbulbs of the correct wattage.hold the globe of the light into position, and tighten the setscrews on the side of the canopy.turn the power back on.
@article
 Find the main breaker box, and turn off either the individual breaker for the room or the main power breaker.

Always test the power by flipping the light switch a few times before proceeding.;
, Use a Phillips screwdriver to unscrew the mounting screws, and bring down the light fixture. It is helpful to have someone to hold the fixture as you uncap the wires and remove any electrical tape. Untwist the fixture wires from the house wiring., Houses built before 1985 may have wiring for fixtures rated at 90 degrees and less. Most of the more-recent fixtures require wires that can withstand hotter temperatures.

Look for wires marked NM-B, UF-B, THHN, or THWN-2. These wires are approved for the higher-temperature fixtures.


According to the National Electric Code (NEC), a fixture that weighs 50 pounds or more will have to have its own independent electrical box.
 This will save time and arm strain later.

Adjust the length of the rod by aligning the canopy with the crossbar and allowing a little screw thread to extend through the canopy.
Lock the length in place with a lock nut.
Thread the screws into holes on each side of the crossbar. If you're using a rod, thread it into the center hole of the crossbar.
,, The ground wire is the bare cooper wire and should be connected to the green grounding screw in the crossbar. Wire black to black and white to white.

Have a helper hold the rest of the fixture while you connect the wires.
, Most light fixtures will have a keyhole-shaped hole. Align the head of the screw into the wider part of the hole, and twist the fixture to the narrower part. Tighten the mounting screws.

If you're using a center-mounted ceiling light, slide the canopy onto the rod so the nipple shows through the center hole. Screw on, and tighten the mounting nut.
If needed, adjust the rod so that the canopy sits flush against the ceiling.
,,