@summary
select the recipient of your funds.

@summary
enter the amount you would like to send.make sure that you have sufficient funds in your account to cover the amount you would like to send.

@summary
select when you would like the transfer to go through.by using a dropdown menu or entering in a date and time, you will be prompted to select when you want to send your money.

@summary
review your transfer details and confirm the transaction.
@article
 Once you are logged in to your Internet banking account and have selected the transfer function, you will need to enter the account information of the person or entity you would like to send money to. Typically, this includes the recipient’s bank account number and bank routing number.Many banks will allow you to send money to another of your own accounts simply by selecting that account (from a dropdown menu, for example).
Contact the recipient if you are not sure of the right account number or routing number to use.
Some banks will allow you to send money using only a recipient’s email address or mobile number.Many online banking services will allow you to save a recipient’s information in your account. This can save you time if you will frequently be sending money to that recipient.
 Remember that recently-deposited funds might take a while to become available in your account.
 Typically, you can choose to have a transfer go through immediately, or at a specified later date and time. In many cases, you can also arrange to have a certain transfer be recurring (such as to pay a monthly bill).


Many banks will set a transfer time of immediately or same day by default, so make sure to check and change this if necessary., Once you have selected the kind of transfer you want to make, and have entered all of the required information, you should review the details of your transaction. Make sure that everything (recipient information, amount of money, etc.) looks correct, and click to complete the transfer transaction. Ordinarily, your bank will give you a confirmation of the transfer, through the Internet banking interface, by email or by text message.

