@summary
take a class in political science, if you can.

@summary
find local volunteer groups, charities or non-governmental organizations that offer talks or workshops on subjects that interest you.

@summary
don't take it for granted that things people tell you are true.

@summary
read everything you can about the situation you want to analyze.

@summary
talk with people who agree with your conclusions about the situation.

@summary
talk with people who disagree with your conclusions about the situation.

@summary
ask someone knowledgeable about the situation if there's any more information to consider.
@article
 Look at the school's and the professor's background and political involvements, and remember that their beliefs are just that- their own. Focus on developing a strong analytical technique, not a copycat ideology.;
, Attend, and practice your analytical technique.
 There is a lot of money invested in politics, as well as a lot of lives, and people want to sway you to their side. Being lazy about your research benefits people who want to lie to you. Be especially wary of information from advocacy/lobby groups, breaking news and "liberal" or "conservative" pundits.
 Make notes, and find out the following about everything you read:


what information is impartial, verifiable fact (who what where when how)?
what information is analysis (why, how, what does it mean, who is affected, how should you react)?
who is giving you this information (newspaper, TV, politician)?
what benefit do they receive from telling you this (sales, ratings, votes)?
what political, financial or other motivation do they have for interpreting the facts this way?
how does that motivation sit with your personal beliefs?
are all their facts correct (look up those sources, in encyclopedias, meeting minutes, raw video, the bible etc)?
has anyone offered a different interpretation of the facts?

, Find out what convinced them.
 Find out what convinced them.
 Thank them for their input, but apply the same analytical techniques to what they tell you.

