@summary
know how lord shiva is called.

@summary
be aware that lord shiva is present in each and every element that comprises this universe, and mahadev is the only god who is present in every human being (that is why they say har har mahadev; it means every one is mahadev, since he is present in every one).

@summary
pray to mahadev from your chitta (chitta is termed as the mind-stuff or mental substance).

@summary
chant the panchakshari mantra (five letter mantra) " namah shivaya".if you have an audio or video of the vedic rudram mantra, play that as well, since it creates a huge positive vibration.

@summary
do 'abhishekham' to lord shiva every monday with water, honey, turmeric powder, sugar, curd etc.

@article
 Lord Shiva is often referred as " MAHADEV ", meaning God of Gods.


God refers to: G - Generator (Lord Brahma, the creator); O - Operator (Lord Vishnu) and D - destroyer (Lord Shiva destroys with his third eye). In this regards, it may seem that Lord Shiva has the third eye and he destroys in anger. But the truth is mahadev is bhole shankar ('bhola' means innocent), he is the only God who is pleased by mere chanting of his name and fulfills all wishes of all people. 
The other popular names associated with Lord Shiva are Mahesh, Maheshwar, Shankar, Shambhu, Rudra, Har, Trilochan, Devendra (meaning Chief of the gods) and Triloknath (meaning Lord of the three realms).
Shiva means "the One who is eternally pure" and he is untouched by any thing. ;
, When a person is alive and when the person dies, even then he applies the ashes of your dead body all over his body. That is the greatness of Mahadev.


At a glance when you see Shiva, you see him as a married man with his wife Parvati (Aadi Shakti) and children Ganesh and Karthikeya and in the next instance he is a Sanyasi and bairaagi, who doesn't need any worldly desires and wears lion cloth and applies ash over his body and it is said that he stays in the burial ground. 

, He will be pleased and all desires will be fulfilled. P

, It comprises the five elements of the nature, namely Earth, Water, Fire, Air and Akash (sky).
,