@summary
know what oils help with which symptoms.

@summary
create an uplifting recipe that includes 6 drops bergamot oil, 3 drops geranium oil, 2 ounces vegetable oil, 3 drops petitgrain oil, and optionally 1 drop of neroli, which can be expensive.

@summary
make an inhalation recipe that includes 4 parts ylang-ylang essential oil, 4 parts clary sage essential oil, 2 parts basil essential oil, 3 parts geranium essential oil and 1 part sandalwood essential oil.

@summary
put together an oil blend includes the combination of jasmine, rose, basil, clary sage and german chamomile (matricaria recutita).

@summary
add chamomile, jasmine and bergamot to a brown sugar cube as another means of using essential oils.

@article



Clary sage essential oil can help with anxiety, depression and insomnia.
Basil works against depression, fatigue and anxiety.
Rose essential oil has properties that work on the entire nervous system.
Ylang-ylang is used as a relaxer that can help with insomnia, anxiety and depression.
Sandalwood is an oil that has sedative properties that can help ease tension.
Lavender essential oil can help with migraines, depression, nervous tension, headaches, hypertension and insomnia.;
,


You can use this recipe as a massage oil by applying it directly to your skin.
Make an air spray by omitting the vegetable oil and adding the mixture to 2 ounces of water instead.
Add your mixture to warm bathwater and soak in it for 15 to 20 minutes.
Use your mixture in a footbath, and let your feet soak in it.
If you omit the vegetable oil, you can also try your mixture in an aromatherapy diffuser. Try simmering it in a pan of water, or add it to a potpourri cooker.
 Combine these oils into a small glass bottle, and open up and sniff as needed throughout the day, or add to a tissue and smell throughout the day.
 Once you combine these oils together, you put 2 to 3 drops in a bowl of steaming water. Alternatively, place 5 to 6 drops in a bath, or you can put a small amount along the edge of your pillow to inhale while you sleep.
