@summary
make or buy a set of 78 cards - one card for each note on the guitar up to and including the 12th fret.

@summary
test yourself with the first 6 cards – the cards for the open strings of the guitar (e,a,d,g,b and e), played without pressing on any frets.

@summary
look at the cards for frets 1 – 4.

@summary
take the cards that cover frets 5 – 8.

@summary
take the cards that cover frets 9 – 12.

@summary
shuffle the pack of cards, and then test yourself with a few cards every day, taking a few cards from the shuffled pack.
@article


Using any guitar book that shows all the notes on the fretboard, fret by fret, you can copy that chart and make the set of 78 flash cards yourself. Put a picture of one note on one side of a card and on the other side of the card put the name of the note, and a diagram showing the location of that note on the guitar.
Buy a set of the 78 guitar flash cards called "Philips Learn All the Notes on the Guitar Flash Cards." Search online to find out where you can buy the set.;
,

Say aloud the name of the note, and then say where that note is on the guitar fretboard.
Look at the other side of the card to see if your answer is correct.
If your answer is correct, play that note on the guitar.
When you can test yourself with the 6 cards for the open strings without making mistakes, do the next step.
 There are 24 cards.

Test yourself with these 24 cards – a few cards each day, the same way you tested yourself with the first 6 cards.
When you no longer make mistakes with these cards, do the next step.


Test yourself every day with these cards, in the same way as before.
When you no longer make mistakes with the cards for frets 5 –8, do the next step.


Test yourself with these cards – a few cards a day, in the same way as before.
When you no longer make mistakes with the cards for frets 9 – 12, do the next step.


At this point, you should have seen all the cards so many times and tested yourself so many times that you can look at a guitar arrangement, seeing the same notes that you have seen again and again with the cards, and without difficulty be able to play the notes in that guitar arrangement.

