@summary
look for oval or round frames if you have a square, angular face.

@summary
consider frames that are square, rectangular, or geometric, since these add sharp angles to the soft curves of your face.

@summary
look for tall frames if you have a narrow, oblong face.

@summary
try angular frames that sharpen your facial features if you have a round face.

@summary
shop for oval frames that maintain the balance of your face if you have a diamond shaped face.

@summary
balance out a heart shaped face with bottom-heavy frames that create the appearance of width on your lower face.

@summary
look for semi-rimless frames and top-heavy styles if you have a triangle shaped face.
@article
 Look for a pair with center-set temples or those that connect at the top of the frame.


Avoid geometric, square frames that may accentuate the sharp angles of your face. Also avoid color accents on the bottom of the frame, since these may draw unwanted attention to your chin.





;
, Most other frames flatter this face shape fairly well, however.


Avoid frames that are excessively large.
 These help create the illusion of a shorter face. Also consider broad glasses with accented top rims and decorative details at the temple, since these features add width.


Avoid small, short frames that look out of proportion.
 Horizontal shapes and rectangles are especially useful in making your face look thinner. Also consider frames with temples that connect at the top of the frame to help create the illusion of face length.


Avoid small, round frames that look out of proportion and emphasize the curves of your face.
 Also look at upswept frames and rimless styles, both of which show off your cheekbones.


Avoid narrow frames that make your eye line look narrower than usual.
 These frames are especially effective if they have low-set temples and narrow, round frames.


Avoid top-heavy frames. Also avoid decorative temples, since these tend to emphases the upper portion of your face.
 These styles balance out the width of the jaw by drawing the eye to the upper face.


Avoid low-set temples that widen the line of the jaw, and also avoid narrow frames, since these often look disproportionate with your face.







