@summary
clean the garment to prepare it for dyeing.

@summary
tie the garment up with rubber bands if you want to tie dye.

@summary
dissolve the disperse dye in 1 cup of boiling water.

@summary
dilute 2 tablespoons of dye carrier in 1 cup of boiling water and stir.

@summary
fill a large pot with 2 gallons (7.57 liters) of water and bring it to 120°f (48.89°c) on the stovetop.

@summary
add the pre-washed garment to the dye bath.

@summary
bring the dye bath to a rapid boil.

@summary
once it reaches a boil, simmer the dye bath and stir intermittently for 30-45 minutes.

@summary
heat a second pot of water to 180°f (82.3°c) while you simmer the dye bath.

@summary
discard the dye bath and refill the pot with water at 160°f (71.2°c).

@summary
rinse the garment thoroughly in hot water.
@article
 There are two methods you can use for this, but it is important to clean the fabric in order to get it ready to absorb the disperse dye.


Put the garment through a cycle in the washing machine on the hottest setting with ½ teaspoon of soda ash and ½ teaspoon of Synthrapol. The Synthrapol helps to clean and prepare the garment for dyeing.
Wash the garment by hand on the stovetop with ½ teaspoon of soda ash and ½ teaspoon of Synthrapol.
 You can create different patterns, such as rosettes, sunbursts, swirls, and so on. Here are a few ideas to get you started:

For a simple, rippled look, crumple your garment into a ball and wrap a few, large rubber bands around it to hold it together.
For a banded effect, twist your garment into a rope and wrap some rubber bands around the rope. Keep the rubber bands several inches apart.
To create a sunburst or swirl, pinch the center of your garment (such as shirt or handkerchief) and twist it. Keep twisting and turning until you get a shape like a cinnamon roll. Wrap a few rubber bands around the "bun" to hold it together.
 Stir the dye powder into the boiling water, and then allow it to cool to room temperature. Once it has cooled, stir it again. Then, strain through two layers of nylon stockings before adding it to the dye bath. Depending on how light or dark you want to dye your polyester garment, there are different amounts of dye powder to use. Here are a few combinations to get you started:


Pale/pastel: ¼ teaspoon
Medium: ¾ teaspoon
Dark: 3 teaspoons
Black: 6 teaspoons

, Dye carrier is necessary to achieve dark colors, but it is optional for pale or medium colors. You will add this diluted dye carrier to the dye bath later on.
 Add the following ingredients in the order they are given once the water reaches the correct temperature. Stir the mixture after you add each ingredient.


½ teaspoon Synthrapol
1 teaspoon citric acid or 11 teaspoons distilled white vinegar
Diluted dye carrier mixture, if using
¾ teaspoon Metaphos, which is optional unless you have hard water
Dissolved and strained disperse dye

, Stir the full mixture together one last time before adding the garment to it.
 Stir the mixture constantly while it comes to a boil. Be careful so as not to crease the fabric too much. If you do this, the dye job may not be even at the end.
 The longer you let it sit, the darker the color will be. Remember to be gentle while you stir so that the fabric does not crease and the dye takes onto all of the garment evenly., When the garment reaches your preferred shade or color, remove it from the dye bath and transfer it to this second pot of heated water.


Make sure that the temperature is at 180°F (82.3°C), because temperatures below this will result in an odd odor and residue on the garment.
Be sure to fully submerge the garment in the water in order to rinse it.
 You are going to make a mixture to wash the fabric again before it dries.


Add ½ teaspoon of Synthrapol to the water and stir.
Transfer the dyed garment from the rinse pot to this pot. Stir intermittently for 5-10 minutes.
 Once the water runs clear, remove excess moisture by wrapping it in a towel or wringing it out.


Smell the garment once it is rinsed and wrung out. If it still smells like the dye carrier, then repeat steps 7 and 8 above to better remove it.
If the garment has no odor, then hang it to dry.
If you wrapped rubber bands around your garment to tie dye it, cut rubber bands off before you go to rinse it.

