@summary
identify the ingrown toenail.

@summary
take painkillers.

@summary
soak your foot.

@summary
push the skin away from the nail gently.

@summary
protect the toe.
@article
 Ingrown toenails are most common on the big toe, but can also occur on other toes. If you have one, you will likely notice:Redness in the skin around the edge of the nail
Swelling of the skin near where the nail is poking into it
Pain in your toe. It may hurt when you walk or put pressure on it.
Fluid building up around the toe.
An overgrowth of skin around the area
Bleeding
White, or yellow pus;
, Over-the-counter painkillers are usually effective against the soreness and inflammation of an ingrown toenail. Be sure you follow the instructions on the package. Talk to your doctor if you're taking other medications, since you want to be sure they don't interact with one another. If you happen to be pregnant or nursing, or if you're treating a child, be sure you talk to your doctor, since you might need different options. There are several options you can try, and they're all available at most stores:Acetaminophen (Tylenol)
Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB)
Naproxen sodium (Aleve)

, This will help to soften the nail and surrounding skin, and lessen the pain and swelling. Afterwards your toe should feel less sore. Dry it thoroughly with a clean towel.Use warm water. It should be comfortable and relaxing to put your feet in. If it is uncomfortable, it is too hot.
Soak for approximately 15 to 20 minutes up to four times per day. If you are unable to do it four times per day, soaking once in the morning and again in the evening will still help.
 After you have softened the nail and skin, you can gently push the skin back from the nail to help the nail grow above the skin, rather than into it. Make sure your hands are clean when you touch it so that you don’t introduce dirt or bacteria into it.You can slip a tiny bit of clean cotton or dental floss under the nail to hold it above the skin.
The toe may be tender, but it should not be extremely painful.
 After you have soaked and cleaned the toe you can protect it from getting infected by:Smearing antibiotic cream on the area that hurts. Make sure you read the directions on the packaging before you use it. You can purchase an antibiotic cream over-the-counter at your local drug store.
Bandage the toe. This will help keep it clean and prevent dirt and bacteria from getting into it. Each time you soak your toe, you should put a new bandage on. This is particularly important if you wear open-toed shoes.

