@summary
buy a composition notebook or something similar.

@summary
round up your decorating supplies.

@summary
choose a theme for your smash book.

@summary
decorate the cover of the notebook.

@summary
decide whether you want to embellish the pages as you go or before you start smashing.

@summary
gather the memorabilia that you want to put inside the smash book.

@summary
start adding your memorabilia to the pages of your diy smash book.

@summary
write in titles and/or descriptions on your pages.

@summary
hold onto other pieces of memorabilia to add to your smash book later.
@article
 These are often cheap anyway, but if you purchase one around back-to-school time, then they will likely be at an even larger discount.You can choose wide ruled or college ruled, but it likely does not matter.
You might be able to find a journal or notebook with completely blank (i.e. unlined) pages inside.
 Some of these supplies you will need for decorating the cover as well as the pages.Scrapbook paper
Colored card stock or paper
Pens
Scissors
Paint and paint brushes
Markers or colored pencils
Glue, a glue stick, or double-sided tape
Decorative tape
Fabric and fabric glue
Ribbon
Sequins
Stickers
Magazines or newspapers
Stamps
Pockets or envelopes
Wrapping paper

, There are lots of ideas for what your Smash Book might be about.Vacation
Wedding
Birth
Recipes
Birthday
Graduation

, This can be as involved (or not) as you want it to be.Paint the cover and decorate it with your name or a title using stickers, markers, or more paint.
Glue or tape photographs to the cover.
Cut pictures or excerpts from magazines and glue them on the cover.
Attach complementary strips of fabric to the cover using fabric glue.
Wrap the cover with wrapping paper.
 This is really up to your preference; keep in mind that embellishing the pages as you go may cause you to spend extra time waiting for embellishments to dry.


Add any number of things to pages to embellish them, like paint chips, sticky notes, decorative tape, stickers, newspaper clippings, magazine clippings, et cetera.You can upcycle things that you already have, too, that might be in your junk drawer or awaiting being tossed in the trash. This might include things like wedding invitations, cards, old photographs, art projects, and more., This could be a variety of things:


Ticket stubs
Maps
Photographs
Letters
Articles
Poems
Post cards

, You can add them by gluing or taping them to the pages.


You can follow a particular theme or style, if you would like, or you can do true “smashing” by adding items without much thought for those details.
Have fun with gluing in items by putting them down at odd angles and using decorative supplies to embellish.
 If you would like to have a little more understanding of what the page is about when you look back at your Smash Book down the road, you can write in these details in fun markers.


You might also print them from your computer to save yourself time in writing and to use fun fonts.
Leave these out if you would rather not take the time on them. That is part of the flexibility of smashing.
 As you come across other things that you might want to add to your Smash Book, save them in a box or drawer. Then, you can add them to your Smash Book another time.

