@summary
wash the mango.

@summary
peel the mango with a y-shaped vegetable peeler.grip the vegetable peeler with your dominant hand and stand the mango up with your non-dominant hand.

@summary
slice the top end and bottom off of the mango.

@summary
insert a corn-on-the-cob holder in either end of the mango.the two sharp tips of the corn-on-the-cob holder will sink easily into the mango tip.

@summary
use a knife to cut the mango into three pieces.mangoes have a flat pit directly in the middle, which you will not be able to cut into.

@summary
trim the flesh off the pit.
@article
 Hold the mango under cool running tap water, and gently rub it with your hands as you rinse it.You may also use a clean vegetable brush to scrub the surface of the mango, but this isn’t necessary since you will not be eating the skin.
 Using long strokes, guide the edge of the peeler softly down the edge of the mango.









You do not need to apply much pressure when peeling the skin.
Continue to turn the mango as necessary as you peel every edge.
Use caution; your hands may become very slippery.
 The mango is an oblong shape, almost like a football. The two tips of the mango are the small edges that come to a rounded tip. Slice these tips off so the edges of the mango are flat.
 As you cut off the flesh from the mango, grip the corn-on-the-cob holder. This will keep your hands dry and will make the process of removing the mango flesh less slippery.
 The fruit itself is the shape of an oval. When you cut the mango into thirds, make two parallel slices on either side of the pit in the middle, which is about ¾ of an inch thick.









The fattest two edges of the mango are called the “cheeks,” and these are the two edges you are cutting.
When cutting the mango, you want a to preserve as much of the cheeks as possible, since this is the part you eat.
You will end up with three pieces: two halves of mango flesh, and the middle section that has the pit.
 Using the same knife, trim the rest of the mango flesh off of the mango, leaving only the pit behind. Use the same type of motion you used when peeling the mango: move the knife from top to bottom, scraping off the flesh of the mango.









When your knife cannot scrape any more mango flesh off, this means you have reached the pit.
Now, you are ready to enjoy your mango.

