@summary
educate yourself in at least one scientific area.it’s hard to act like a mad scientist without having at least some sense of what goes on in the mind of a mad scientist (or, for that matter, a regular scientist).

@summary
do some crazy experiments.there are many scientific “tricks” you can perform at home.

@summary
try new, challenging activities.mad scientists enjoy testing themselves.
@article
 Even without a strong background in science, you can still cultivate an understanding of what kind of work scientists in a particular field do.


Conduct independent research to better understand the branch of science you’re most interested in. Visit your local library for popular science books, and subscribe to informative magazines like Scientific American. Listen to pop science podcasts like StarTalk when you’re on-the-go.
Use your scientific knowledge to propose wild but plausible-sounding ideas to startle your friends and family.
For instance, you might start a conversation with a question like, “Do you ever wonder how many particle accelerators it would take to create a black hole?”
If you don't know something, don't pretend you do. It will probably be obvious if that is the case.
 For instance, try creating instant ice.


Place a bottle of purified water in the freezer. Let it cool for 2.5-2.75 hours at a temperature of -25 degrees Fahrenheit (-11 degrees Celsius). You should be able to see bits of ice floating in the bottle, but the water should still be liquid.
At this temperature, it has become a “supercool” liquid.
Flick the bottle hard with your index finger to kick-start a crystal formation process within the water bottle. The water will solidify into ice before your eyes.
Perform this experiment for your friends, and don’t tell them how you did it.
 Push yourself physically and intellectually. For instance, you might take up distance running. For added mad scientist points, if anyone asks why you suddenly developed an interest in distance running, say something cryptic like, “Only through trial and error can I discover the true limits of this frail form.”


Albert Einstein used to go sailing on windy days just because he liked the challenge.