@summary
decide if you are interested in running an in-home hair braiding business or if you want to open an actual brick-and-mortar salon.

@summary
check with your local business regulation division to find out what insurance, permits and licenses are required to start your own hair braiding salon.

@summary
decide what types of braids you will offer and prepare a price list.

@summary
assemble a style book or portfolio showing the braid styles you're offering.

@summary
decide if you are going to offer other services in addition to hair braiding.

@summary
market your new hair braiding business.
@article



If you have decided to to open a storefront salon, you will need to find salon space that you can lease or buy with plenty of parking. If you are a 1-person operation, consider renting booth space in an existing beauty salon that will attract business from patrons already in the salon.
Regardless of whether you are leaning toward a home-based business or a storefront salon, check to be sure that local regulations allow for the use of relaxers or other chemically-based products that you will be using on the premises.;
,


If you are planning on selling hair care and styling products, ask if you are required to collect local sales tax and if you will need a retail or resale permit.



Long hair and complicated braids are generally more expensive than short hair and simple patterns.
Weaving additional hair into the braids is generally an additional charge.



Take photographs of clients whose hair you have braided. If you're not skilled at photography, consider hiring a professional photographer to help you.
If you don't have any existing clients that are willing to be photographed for your style book, offer to braid the hair of your family and friends at no cost in exchange for the use of their photographs. If you still need more examples, consider hiring models.
 Manicures, pedicures and acrylic nails are all popular choices to generate additional revenue.


If you are going to offer additional services, decide if those providers will be employees or if you are going to rent booth space to them and allow them to operate as independent contractors.



Enter and sponsor local hair styling contests.
Contact local bridal show organizers and offer to braid their models' hair in exchange for a sign hung at the show.
Hire someone to leave fliers on cars at local high schools and malls.

