@summary
look out for controlling friends.if your friends are constantly trying to make the group your only social outlet, you should think about leaving the group of friends.

@summary
beware of friends that are a bad influence.people often do what they see others do.

@summary
leave groups of friends that don’t invite you out.if your friends often ignore you when arranging outings, you should think about leaving them.

@summary
avoid needy friends.if you have a group of friends who only want to spend time with you when they need something, they are bad friends.

@summary
beware of friends who try to compete with you.if your friends are always trying to one-up you, it’s time to leave that group of friends.

@summary
leave friend groups that drain your energy.spending time with friends should make us feel invigorated, refreshed, and energized.
@article
 They might also badmouth your other friends, family, or significant other in an effort to pressure you into spending less time with them. Leave groups of friends like this as soon as possible.
 Whether for good or ill, friends are a major influence in your life. If your friends engage in negative behaviors, you should leave the group of friends before you get yourself into trouble with them. You should consider leaving your group of friends if they:


Steal goods from stores
Abuse drugs and alcohol
Vandalize public or private property
Engage in other immoral or illegal acts

, This might be an indirect form of bullying (bullying by exclusion). Friends who do this do not value your company, and are not friends at all.
 If you’re providing money, food, or a place to crash for your group of friends and your generosity is not being reciprocated, you are being taken advantage of and should leave the group., Avoid friends who try to minimize your accomplishments. They are bad friends and not worth keeping.


For example, if you tell your friends that you got a 93% on your test, and they brag that your score is not that great because they got an even higher score, they are bad friends.
Conversely, if you say that you’re having a bad day, and your friends insist that they are having even worse days, consider leaving the friend group.



If you find yourself making excuses to avoid your group of friends, they are probably not good for your mental health.
Friends that wear you out with their complaints, drama, or criticism should be left behind.

