@summary
locate the rectangular button at the top right corner of the device.

@summary
find the circular button, or the home button, directly below the screen of your device.

@summary
find 2 buttons on left hand side of your iphone, or the right side of your ipad.

@summary
on the home screen if you push the home button (the one with the circle and in the middle a square) twice at the bottom, you will see a list of all the apps you opened once in a while you want to clear those by holding the first app in the line down and a red dash will appear in the top left corner.
@article
 This button, found on iPhones and iPads alike, can be used to turn on and off the device. These buttons can also be used to "lock" the device, which will temporarily turn off the screen and require a passcode to re-access the device if one has been issued. Locking the device can also conserve battery life.;
, This button can be used to return to the home page any time the device is being used. If the screen is off, the home button can be used to "wake up" the phone. If you are using your device and would like to choose another application, a great way to access these applications is through the home button.


The iPhone 5s, the iPhone 6, the iPhone 6 Plus, and the iPad Air 2 all have home buttons with fingerprint sensors that will unlock your device completely- you might want to give it a try!
Returning to the main menu with the home button will not make you lose any work. For example, if you are browsing the Internet and you want to quickly switch apps, Safari will remain open and be on the page you were on earlier when you re-open the Safari app.
 These control your volume.


On the left hand side you may have 3 buttons. For example, you're using your iPad. It will have a switch that controls your screen to go horizontal or vertical. Other devices may not have that switch. It turns your device all the way off.
You will be on your slide to unlock screen and hold down the On/Off button until the screen says slide to shut down you slide that and your device will turn off to turn it on all you do is hold the On/Off button again until you see the apple logo.
 Tap the dash and it will clear it out of your history


It's also good to do this so your device will not be slow and backed up. To charge your device at the bottom, you will see a rectangle opening. Just plug in your charger and right next to it will have a circle. Plug in your headphone or earbuds and listen to music.

