@summary
consider expressing your intentions to your best friend.if you are certain about asking her out, you should probably communicate this intention with your friend.

@summary
develop a solid relationship with the family.if you have mostly been hanging out with your friend and do not know the family very well, it is best to spend some time getting to know the family.

@summary
get to know her better through family conversations.you can get to know her a bit better by developing a relationship with the family.

@summary
get to know her better.you can start to get to know her better before going out on that first date by having conversations with her wherever you can and asking about her passions and hobbies.
@article
 You want to handle this situation delicately so that it doesn't seem like you are asking permission from your friend, which she might not like. At the same time, you want to be forthright with your friend. Be respectful and communicate your genuine intentions, so that your friend understands that you are serious about a romantic relationship and have genuine respect for their sister and the family.


You might go for coffee with your friend and find a moment to talk about your feelings. For instance, you might say, "Since we went to that concert with your sister Sarah and her friends in July, I've been having some pretty serious feelings for Sarah. I haven't had these kinds of feelings for a long time, and they aren't going away. I wanted to let you know because I would like to ask her out for dinner." If your friend questions your intentions, try restating your genuine feelings for her. If they reassure you that everything is fine, then you know the conversation has gone well.
 By putting some good time into developing these relationships at the start, you will have a better chance of being seen as a good dating prospect.
 Use discretion and don't be too nosy, as this could be a big turnoff. However, you may very well get to know a bit about her simply by hanging out with the family and listening to conversations with and about her and her siblings.


If you are at your best friends house for dinner and there is a conversation about a family vacation, you might listen for details about her experience of the trip.



For instance, if you know she practices Judo twice a week, you might ask her, "What do you like about Judo? And how is it different from the other martial arts?" By expressing an interest in something she is passionate about, you can learn more about her life and her interests.

