@summary
realize that the social media roi has two subsets namely long term roi and short term roi which are famously called as return on marketing investment (romi) and return on marketing objective (romo).

@summary
calculate the romi value.

@summary
calculate the romo value.

@summary
calculate your social media roi from there.
@article
 In this method we will calculate these two subsets and finally calculate the social media ROI.
 ROMI includes overall social marketing contribution over time usually year over year. Follow the below mentioned steps to calculate ROMI.


Add all marketing expenditures: Marketing expenditures (M) = Social Marketing Budget + People and Resources + Technology Investments
Calculate social marketing's contribution to business results (S) = Percentage of Sales influenced by social marketing (total number of leads, sales, cross and up sales) + Increase in revenue from existing customers
Finally calculate social ROMI = Social return (S) / Social Investment (M)

, ROMO includes specific social marketing contributions to customer engagement and sales usually campaign based and short termed. Here we will be basically calculating engagement. Follow the below mentioned steps to calculate ROMO.


Calculate the lead generation effectiveness: Lead generation effectiveness (G) = Number of leads from social networks / Total number of leads
Calculate marketing program effectiveness: Concentrate on specific metrics at the campaign level, the platform level and at specific levels (by post) for your customers. Example: Total number of followers on social platforms or the Growth.
Calculating engagement = (number of like + number of shares + Number of retweets + Blog comments) / (Total number of published posts or pieces of content)

, Now for calculating Social media ROI just look for which plan do you follow. If you have a year to year based investments then your ROMI becomes your ROI and if you follow a campaign based or short termed based investments then your ROMO becomes your ROI. However if you follow the both then ROMI and ROMO combined become your ROI.

