@summary
if another dog is attacking your dog.

@summary
if your dog runs into traffic

@summary
call them, call them, call them.

@summary
if your dog is missing

@summary
call him/her loudly and forcefully

@summary
enlist the help of fellow dog-owners at the park to search for them.

@summary
if your dog starts running away from the dog park

@summary
call them and chase

@summary
if you are on a road, signal for traffic to slow or stop.
@article



Call for that dog's owner to stop him.
Step in between the fighting dogs if you can do so safely.
Gently, but firmly, push the other dog away from yours.
Quickly scoop up your doggy and back away from the attacking animal.
(If they haven't come yet) call for the dogs owner again. Remind them to control their animal.
Once you are at a safe distance, put your pooch down, leash him or her, and leave the dog-park.;
, Loudly and forcefully. Don't just stand there though! You can run after them and call them at the same time
Wave your arms and motion for the cars to stop as you run into the road. Make sure all traffic stops or slows.
Call your dog and approach him or her. Don't look happy or playful because then he/she will think you're playing and run away more, hoping to be chased.
Scoop your naughty puppy up and carefully cross back to safety.
Leash your dog and scold him/her. He/she needs to learn that running in traffic is bad.

Cover the entire length of the park, check in bushes, behind trees, everything. Work quickly; time is of the essence.
Check nearby roads and try to slow traffic
Remember, keep calling their name in a forceful, impatient manner
If you spot them, approach them slowly while calling them. Quickly snap the leash on them and scold.

If someone is standing in reaching distance of the dog, call for them to slow down the dog by getting in front of him/her or petting them or picking them up. Only ask if you know your dog is gentle with strangers; you don't want them biting this poor pedestrian.
Wait until your dog naturally stops, such as to pee on grass or bushes, and take this chance to grab them.
Call them. They think your playing a game, so sound a bit happy and whistle and slap your thighs. Say "Good, girl/boy!" a lot.
Hold eye-contact with them.
If they approach you, stand still, do not make sudden movements. Then leash them.
If they look like they're about to run away again, keep on calling them. Then rush over and leash them
Scold them and bring them home.

