@summary
determine if you’re being overworked.if you began your job with a reasonable amount of work and you were able to accomplish it competently, but now find yourself buried under a mountain of projects that you haven’t been properly trained or equipped to handle, your superiors may be setting you up to fail.it’s possible, however, that your superiors misjudged your capabilities and you can simply talk to them about reducing your workload.consult with one of your superiors about the situation.

@summary
determine if you’re being under worked.at the other end of the spectrum from being overworked, you might find that your workload is drying up.

@summary
receive a request to take time off or get a pay cut.
@article
 Say, “I feel overwhelmed by the amount of work coming in these days. Is there any way to transfer some of my projects to another department?”
If, despite your protests, you’re told that the workload you’ve been assigned is your responsibility alone, and failure to accomplish everything will lead to consequences, you should look for a new job.
 If you began your job with an adequate amount of work but now find that you’re heading home early, have few responsibilities, and your paycheck is shrinking due to your lack of work opportunities, management might be forcing you out by withholding work.Consult with one of your superiors about the situation. Say, “I feel that I could take on some more work these days. Do you have anything for me?”
If the superior insists that you’re being given all the available work but in fact, your coworkers are getting plenty of new opportunities, just make the best of it. For instance, say to yourself, “I really enjoy having all this free time to watch short films and visit local museums.”

, If your superiors have asked you to accept less pay for the same work you’ve been doing or to take a leave of absence, it could be an informal way to force you to find another job. For instance, you might be asked to accept $10 per hour for the same job that you’ve been earning $15 per hour at.Your superiors may say, “This is best for you” or “We think you just need a break.”
If you’ve been asked to take an indefinite leave of absence, a layoff might be coming soon. To make the best of it, you should walk around the office and enjoy the time you have with your coworkers before your leave of absence begins. Look forward to your leave of absence as a period of time to look for a new job or catch up on hobbies.

