@summary
cinnamon, like honey, contains trace amounts of peroxide and will not dry out your hair.

@summary
wet your hair (in the shower, the sink, or using a spray bottle) and work in conditioner.

@summary
in a bowl, mix cinnamon and water into a paste.

@summary
spread the cinnamon-and-water paste into your hair.

@summary
leave the cinnamon mixture in your hair for 4-8 hours, depending on the shade of your hair.

@summary
when you are ready, rinse the cinnamon out of your hair.
@article
 This method works especially well on dark hair.You can find cinnamon in most grocery stores, and you may already have some in your kitchen!

, The conditioner will help the cinnamon stick to your hair, and it will spread the highlights throughout your hair.
 The amount that you use will depend on how much hair you have. Start with several tablespoons of cinnamon, and gradually add water until the mixture is thick but spreadable.
 Make sure to spread it evenly from root to tip, and spread it deeply--beyond just the outer layers of hair.


Rub your hair together between your hands. This will help spread the cinnamon.
Consider using a brush to help spread the cinnamon throughout your hair. If you do, make sure that the brush is wet so that the cinnamon will glide through your hair more smoothly.
 If possible, leave the mixture in your hair overnight.


The longer that you keep the cinnamon in your hair, the lighter the end result will be. Four hours will make a slight impact, but you may need to continue the treatment for eight hours or more to achieve the shade that you want.
Err on the side of caution. Remember: you can always try the treatment again!
Cover your cinnamon-hair with a shower cap or a plastic bag so that the cinnamon does not rub off.
You may feel a slight heat and tingling on your scalp--but this is normal, and it will pass.
 When dry, your hair will smell amazing!


If you have curly hair, use shampoo to get the cinnamon out.
If the resulting shade is not light enough for you, remember that you can always try again!

