@summary
wash the window thoroughly.

@summary
tape a border along the inside of the window frame, using painter's tape.

@summary
cover the interior walls of the work area with masking paper or plastic sheeting.

@summary
shake the frosting spray can for the suggested length, usually 1-2 minutes.

@summary
spray the window using large, back and forth motions to cover the surface evenly.

@summary
apply a second coat of frosting after your first coat has completely dried.

@summary
spray acrylic sealer onto the frosted window after it has completely dried.

@summary
remove the painter's tape carefully from the glass after the frosting has dried.
@article
 Scrub to remove all dust and debris from the surface.After washing, dry the window completely. Make sure there is no paper or fabric left behind on the surface or else this will affect the final appearance of the frosted glass.;
, This border will be the portion of window you don't want frosted.


Blue painter's tape. Painter's tape is specifically designed to endure wet applications. It has a weak adhesive allowing it to be easily removed.For windows with lattice work or muntin bars (strips of wood between the glass), cover the wood with tape.
If the 1-in. painter's tape width isn't a thick enough border, lay another piece alongside it. Use a tape measure to ensure that borders are symmetrical; uneven borders look bad.
If your window does not have a frame, simply tape along the outside edges until you have created a border.
 Use painter's tape to hold it in place.


Don't leave any openings or gaps where the spray could enter.
When working indoors, open doors and windows and turn on fans to help circulate fresh air. Consider wearing a particle mask to protect your nose and mouth. The spray fumes are hazardous to your health.Take the window outside, if possible. This ensures a healthy work space and decreases the likelihood of "overspray," and frosting spray drifting onto other objects.



Find frosting spray at craft and home improvement stores.
While shaking the can, you should hear the small ball inside begin to rattle. Test spray on a small piece of cardboard.If it sprays correctly, prepare to frost your glass. If it is not spraying at a steady rate, continue shaking and testing in 1 minute intervals.
 Hold the frosting can at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) from from the window's surface to avoid splotches and runs.


Apply a light coating at first. It is easier to go back and add a second or third layer to even out the frosting, but it is difficult to remove gloppy or runny patches.
Expect 5-10 minutes for the frosting to become visible on the glass.
 Use the same back-and-forth motion to create a smooth frosted surface.


If necessary, apply a third or fourth layer of frosting until you get the desired effect. Follow the spray can's directions regarding the wait time required between coats.
 If you are satisfied with the appearance of the frosting, apply sealer.


Acrylic sealers protect glass from the elements such as moisture and dirt. The protective gloss coating is often permanent.If you are unhappy with the frosted surface after the sealant has already dried, you will need to scrape it off with a razor blade., Peel slowly to avoid accidentally removing the frosting.


If you worked indoors, remove the painter's tape cautiously. This will prevent removal of paint from the walls.
Use mineral spirits to clean any overspray from your hands and other objects. Do not use mineral spirits to clean items with paint or nice finishes, as this could damage the quality.

