@summary
consider the time of year for your trip to cincinnati, which can experience the worst of winter and summer.

@summary
make a list of what to pack for a trip to cincinnati.

@summary
bring clothing that reflects the activities you plan to participate in.

@summary
roll up or bundle clothing before placing it in a suitcase or bag.

@summary
plan on taking only two pairs of shoes for travel to cincinnati.

@summary
limit toiletries to necessary items.

@summary
divide the clothing for a family or group between various suitcases if travel to cincinnati will include flying.

@summary
split financial assets (cash, credit cards) into different pockets and bags.

@summary
pack for travel to cincinnati by including a carry-on bag for important papers, valuables and items you can't do without.

@summary
consider other important items in trip planning:

@summary
camera with additional memory.
@article



January is coldest with an average temperature of 29 degrees Fahrenheit (-1 Celsius).
Snow is common, so bring a coat, hat, gloves, scarf and thermal underwear in winter.
Look for hot and humid summers with lots of rain. Bring an umbrella.;
,


Think multipurpose and multifunction.
If it's not on your list, don't pack it.



Cincinnati is a fairly casual city, but you may go somewhere fancy (symphony? opera?), so bring along one dress-up outfit.
Plan to do laundry if your trip to Cincinnati will last three weeks or more.
 Use every space.


Folding takes up too much space in a suitcase and often adds wrinkles to clothing.
Stick shoes, belts and other rigid items in the outer edge of the suitcase.
 Shoes take up a lot of room in luggage.


Make one a comfortable pair suitable for walking around Cincinnati. Wear the comfortable shoes on any flights as well.
Choose another pair for dress-up occasions.



Pack toiletries in small or travel-size containers.
Trip planning should always include plastic bags, such as Ziploc brand. This keeps toiletries from leaking onto clothing. Plastic bags can later be used for dirty clothes or garbage.
 That way, if the airline loses one suitcase, everyone still has clothing.



This helps in case of loss or robbery.
 Items you might want to keep close include:


Identification, credit cards.
Prescription medication in original containers.
Tickets, travel itinerary and trip planning notes.
Visa or passport if you're coming from outside the U.S.
Jewelry.
Electronic items.
Chewing gum to help your ears if you're flying.

Batteries or chargers.
Guidebooks and maps.
If you're coming from outside the U.S., you may need an electrical adapter and plug converter.

