@summary
get into your teen’s shoes.try to see the situation from their eyes before you begin teaching them phone etiquette.

@summary
be able to justify each piece of etiquette.your teen might not immediately understand why phone etiquette is important or how it can impact the perception others have of them.

@summary
be a positive role model.the best way to teach phone etiquette to your teen is to practice good phone etiquette yourself.

@summary
have a penalty system in place.if your teen is not conforming to phone etiquette – especially in ways that are dangerous or disruptive – remove their phone privileges for a set period of time.
@article
 This will help you anticipate potential points of confusion and better understand where they’re coming from. Teaching anything well requires understanding your audience.


Observe your teen’s behavior on the phone before teaching them phone etiquette. That way, you’ll know what areas of phone etiquette your teen understands well and which areas he or she needs to improve.
 Think carefully about each piece of etiquette you share with your teen and, be sure you fully understand why etiquette matters.


You could provide specific justification for each piece of phone etiquette, or you could generalize your justification with a statement like, “Phone etiquette is an important way of showing respect to the person you’re speaking to and those around you.”
Ask your teen how they would like it if someone was using bad etiquette around them. For example, you can say, "How would you like it if your friends were constantly playing on their phones while hanging out with you?"
Teens are intelligent and curious people. They may have follow-up questions about phone etiquette and how to best behave in a given situation. Listen carefully to their concerns and do your best to explain why they should follow a certain course.
 For instance, if you’re in the car with your child and your phone goes off, ask your teen to answer for you. They might be annoyed, but they will get the message that driving and talking on the phone is not good phone etiquette.
 Ensure your teen knows the penalty for not conforming to phone etiquette. The amount of time you forbid them from using their phones depends on your opinion of the severity of the offense. For repeat offenders who refuse to comply with good phone etiquette, you might ban phones for one week.
For a minor infraction against the rules of good phone etiquette, you might forbid phone use for just a day or two.

