@summary
purchase the game first (either the disc version or the downloadable version from battlenet), install it on your computer, and then create an account.

@summary
go to battlenet's website to begin creating your wow account.

@summary
begin creating your new account on the battlenet "account creation" page by filling in the required fields.

@summary
go to the email account that you used to create the account.

@summary
enter your game key, which is located on the wow box the discs came in that you used to download the game with, or was given to you if you downloaded the game from the battlenet site.

@summary
provide a method of payment before you log into your wow account.
@article
;
,


Creating an account through Battlenet is necessary because Blizzard uses Battlenet as a central game managing system. If you play more than one Blizzard game, or just WOW, you will have to begin with Battle.
When you go to Battlenet's homepage, it will ask you if you have a Battlenet account. Click "No - Create New Account."
You can also reach this same page by searching for WOW's community site and clicking on the "Create New Account" tab at the top of the page, to the right of the "Log In" tab.



You will be asked to enter your country of residence, date of birth, name, email address (which will also be used as your user name to log into your Battlenet account and your WOW account), a password and a security question.
You will also have to agree to and select the "Terms of Use".
You will have a chance to sign up for news and special offers.
 You will receive a verification email at that address.


You must click on the link provided in the verification email to activate your Battlenet account.
The link will take you to a page where you will see a tab "Continue Adding A New Game." Click on this.



Once the key is entered, your WOW account will be linked to your Battlenet account.



A payment method is necessary, with the exception of if you are playing on a trial or you were recruited by a friend.
Either from your Battlenet page or from the WOW community site, you can manage your account by adding a payment.
If you choose to use a credit card, your credit card will be billed monthly with WOW's online fee.
If you use a pre-paid card, it is only good for the time allotted on the card. You will have to purchase a new card each time the old one runs out. With each pre-paid card, you will have to go into your account management and enter the new code for it.

