@summary
look for "cash refund" or "crv" on the top or bottom of your bottle.

@summary
don't try to earn extra cash by taking plastic bottles out of other people's recycling containers.

@summary
know what states in the us offer cash refunds and crvs.

@summary
know what territories in canada offer cash refunds for plastic bottles.

@summary
make sure that the bottles are clean and the caps are taken off.

@summary
take the bottles to your local recycling or "buy back" center.

@summary
consider checking with your city to see if there are any centers that purchase plastic bottles.

@summary
know that not every recycling center accepts every type of plastic bottle.
@article
 Sometimes, you might even see an amount, such as 5¢ or 15¢. This determines how much money you will get back., This is against the law in most cities. It's known as recycling theft and could earn you a citation. In most cases, the price you end up paying is much greater than the 5¢ or 15¢ the bottle might get you. It's not worth it., If your state haves a buy back program, you can take your plastic bottles to a special center and get between 5¢ and 15¢ back per bottle. How much you get back will depend on the state that you live in, and the size of the bottle. At the time of writing this article, the following states have buy back programs:California
Connecticut (no HDPE plastic)
Hawaii (PET and HDPE plastic only)
Iowa
Massachusetts
Maine
Michigan
New York
Oregon
Vermont

, Depending on which territory you live in, you can get anywhere between 5¢ and 35¢ per bottle. At the time of writing this article, the following territories offer cash refunds for plastic bottles:Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba (beer bottles only)
New Brunswick
Newfoundland
Nova Scotia
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec
Saskatchewan
Yukon Territory
Northwest Territories

, Most recycling centers will not take back dirty bottles. Some also request that you remove the cap as well. Check with your local recycling center to see what their requirements are.
 To find out whether or not your city has one, visit your city's website.If you live in the United States, keep in mind that just because a certain state offers cash refunds for plastic bottles does not mean that the state's recycling center will take back every plastic bottle. Most states will only accept plastic bottles that actually say "CASH REFUND" or "CRV" and will not accept blank, out-of-state bottles.
 If you live in another country, this could be a great option for you. Most such centers do not have a walk-in service; you will need to ship your plastic bottles to them. The center will then either pay you based on the weight of the bottles, or how many bottles you send in. Here are some other things that could affect the amount you get back:The type of plastic
The of the plastic
The physical properties of the plastic (such as density, melting point, etc)
The quality of the plastic

, There are many different types of plastic that a bottle might be made out of. The most common types are #1 and #2. They are also the most widely accepted. Also, keep in mind that a bottle's shape and size will also determine whether or not it can be recycled. Some centers only accept bottles of a certain size, while others have size limits.