@summary
evaluating the existing ekg machine in the office: it's on its last legs, but you decided to wait until it was broken beyond repair.

@summary
find the product you need, by shopping around:

@summary
allow yourself time to shop the internet for an ekg machine; do not trust your local rep just because of having dealt with him or her for years.

@summary
realize you will receive service when you purchase over the internet, as most ekg manufacturers have authorized service representatives in each area of the country.

@summary
expect your local rep to have a role in selling you supplies, although you should periodically check the prices they are offering.
@article



Paying too much: Your machine breaks and the local rep who has been providing you with gauze pads, cotton balls and all your other office supplies brings an EKG machine that he represents into the office for you to consider.
Finding that your nurses' love it, and you need the machine: the local rep gives you a price.
Your rep for some large distributors accepts incentives to promote certain machines, in this case EKG's, but the machine may not be the one for your practice.
Haggling little, if at all, and, voila, there is a brand new machine in your office.;
,
Well, rather than going to the internet to find the best price on that product -- the rep's job is to get you into a dependent relationship.
Avoid being used as in the industry lingo: "Own the relationship and you will own the business".



They will train office staff on proper use of the machine, no matter which distributor the EKG machine was purchased from.
Further, the manufacturer and often the distributor will handle all warranty and service issues.
The result? When buying an EKG machine, you get the same or comparable service from an internet company as you do from a company you find in the classified section or one of your Journals, product magazines that come to your office, or promotional direct-mail cards that have a variety of medical equipment in them.



If your rep's service and pricing is not up to par, there are usually 2 or 3 reps in the same area from other companies who are ready, willing and able to help you.
But when it comes to buying an EKG machine, the lesson here is that you should explore other purchasing options.Maybe you can trade in your old machine for store credit?

