@summary
gently remove any screen protectors.

@summary
clean the screen with a damp cloth and wipe dry.

@summary
check the edges of the touch screen for dirt by holding the console at an angle.

@summary
remove any game from the console and turn the nintendo ds console on.

@summary
when the main menu appears, tap the settings menu with the stylus.

@summary
select the calibration setting.

@summary
tap the "confirm" button to save the new settings.
@article
 These affect the sensitivity of the screen and can get in the way while you're attempting to clean.


Using an unlicensed screen protector can lower the sensitivity of the screen, making touch screen gameplay difficult. In some cases, the screen protector can be causing the problem. When applying a screen protector, make sure there are no air bubbles. This can lower accuracy when playing games.;
, Do this especially if you were using a screen protector, as they can leave residue and marks on the screen.
 Remove any dirt with a soft-bristled toothbrush. Press the screen gently with your thumb to separate it from the plastic border.


You need to be careful here, the Nintendo DS is resilient, but will be possible to break if you exert too much pressure. You only need enough space to get a couple of bristles from your toothbrush in.
Hold the system so the side with the dirt is at the top. Do not let the hard part of the toothbrush touch the screen, as this could damage or scratch it.
Work your way around the whole of the touch screen border with the toothbrush. You'll need to move where you're applying pressure.
 Press the A button when the "Touch the Touch Screen to Continue" message appears.
 Or if settings doesn't respond to the stylus, use the Control Pad to move the cursor over and press the A button.
 Tap the red square that appears on the touch screen with the stylus. Repeat as the red square moves around the screen.


You must touch the red square precisely at the each of the three positions, otherwise, the test will continue to restart. If this isn't working or the screen is randomly giving off touch inputs, then either repeat the beginning steps or send the console for repairs.
When complete, four new squares will appear which enable you to test the touch screen sensitivity. (Testing is optional)

, A confirmation message will appear.


If you have a Nintendo DS Lite, it will shut down automatically.
The Nintendo DS to DSiXL can go to calibration without touching the screen. Hold L, R, start, while turning it on.
For the 3DS to 3DSxl hold down L,R,x while turning it on.

