@summary
opt for styles that are comfortably loose but not saggy.a too-tight cardigan can make you look bulky and uncomfortable.

@summary
create a formal or business-casual look by layering with a cardigan.in cold weather, a formal or business-casual look can be created by wearing a cardigan under a sports jacket and donning a pair of dress slacks.

@summary
be aware of small details like buttons.these tiny details can drastically change the appearance of a cardigan.

@summary
create a casual look with a lightweight sports cardigan.a cotton sports cardigan worn open over a crisp t-shirt can look casual yet stylish.
@article
 For a good masculine fit, look for cardigans that are slightly roomy in the shoulders. The shoulder seams should stop on top of your shoulders. The cardigan should be long enough to cover your belt, but it shouldn’t be so long that it covers your pants pockets.


A cardigan with a good fit should taper directly under your rib cage, then widen back out at the hips.
For a looser fit, try an oversized cardigan with a shawl collar., Get a similar business-casual vibe by wearing it over a dress shirt and necktie. There are a lot of layering options for cardigans – try it with shirts, ties, vest, jackets, overcoats and so on to keep you warm and insulated.


Avoid wearing zipped cardigans under dressy blazers or with good slacks. These work best as casual outer layers.
In warm weather you could use it as an accent by draping it over your shoulders or choosing a thin cotton version.
 For example, buttons that are large and round have a distinctly feminine vibe. Look for cardigans with modest buttons, wooden toggles or, to get a casual look, zippers. Be aware that plastic buttons are commonly found on cardigans these days.


If you prefer a more formal look, swap the plastic buttons out with horn, mother of pearl, wood or leather button fronts., It creates a slightly athletic-looking vibe, too. Wear it with jeans or trousers. A sports cardigan looks best when the rest of the outfit looks sharp. Avoid wearing it with a baggy or wrinkled t-shirt, which can look sloppy.

