@summary
choose the coin that you want to use for the ring.

@summary
collect the tools that you need to complete the project.

@summary
center the coin on a piece of scrap wood.

@summary
drill your hole through the scrap wood and the coin.push the drill all the way down through the secured top board and through the coin.

@summary
verify that your hole is centered in the coin by using calipers.calipers measure a distance or width, so hold them up to the ring and measure the sides around the hole.

@summary
hold the coin in a pair of metal tongs and heat it with a blow torch.

@summary
slide the coin onto the mandrel.

@summary
hammer down the sides of the coin around the mandrel.

@summary
slip the ring off of the mandrel and set it on a piece of scrap wood.

@summary
apply heat periodically and hammer the wide edge down until you achieve the shape you want.

@summary
polish the ring once it has reached the shape and size you desire.you can polish the ring with a soft cloth, or you can use a polishing compound and felt finishing tip on a rotary tool.
@article
 Small coins, such as pennies and dimes, are not recommended.


To get the hang of making a coin ring, it is recommended to practice with smaller coins, such as nickels, dimes, or pennies.
Quarters and half-dollar coins are the most recommended coins due to their size.
Be sure to find a coin that is made with 90% silver. Usually, these coins were made prior to 1965., Be sure to work in a space where you can use tools, such as a drill, as they can be loud and messy.


A silver coin
A hammer
A ring-sizing mandrel (This is a rod that is wider at one end and tapers down to a smaller point. It is used to size rings.)
A drill and drill bit
Calipers (Similar to a ruler, this is a measuring stick that has moveable arms. The arms are used to measure something, so you expand or narrow them to whatever the object is.)
A blow torch (A blow torch is a canister with a long, thin nozzle coming out of the top of it. When it is turned on, a bright blue, very hot flame comes out of the nozzle.)
A couple of scrap pieces of wood
Metal tongs
Protective gloves and goggles

, If you have a standing drill press, you can center the coin below the drill bit.Then, put a second piece of scrap wood carefully on top of the ring. Secure it down with vise grips.
Do not move the drill bit from its centered position above the coin.
 Then, lift the drill bit back out.


Recommended drill bit sizes are 1/8” and 3/16”.,


It is challenging to recover a coin ring if the hole is off-center. If this is the case, you may need to start over with a new coin.
 The purpose of this is to make the coin easier to mold and work with.When you are done heating it, the coin may have blackened. It will likely now look like a black washer.
Do not touch the coin with your bare hands until it cools.
Wear your protective gloves and goggles while you use the blow torch.
 You will use the mandrel to hammer the sides of the coin down, so it will only slide so far onto the mandrel for now.


Set the tip of the mandrel on a piece of scrap wood to hold it in place. This reduces the risk of the mandrel moving around or jumping while you hit it.
 Turn the mandrel periodically so that you hit all sides of the coin, flattening it against the mandrel.The ring will be slightly warped from this, as the mandrel grows in size from one end to the other. Therefore, one side of the ring will be wider than the other. This will be fixed.
This will be tedious and time-consuming. Take care while you hit the coin not to damage or scratch it.
 Make sure that the smaller side of the ring is down on the wood and the wider side it up. This will make it easier for you to shape that edge down to a normal ring shape., The band will thicken as you hammer the wide edge down so that it is flat and the same size as the other side of the ring.This process will push the metal down, which will slightly alter the ring size.
Wear the protective gloves and goggles as you heat the ring again.



If you use a rotary tool, secure the ring standing up in a vise. Apply the polishing compound to the available side of the ring and polish. Rotate the ring occasionally so that you polish all the way around it. You will have to continue to apply polishing compound as you reach new sections of the ring.

