@summary
contamination sources are the most important thing to keep in mind for any new well.

@summary
find out the local rules for the minimum safe distance from the contamination sources that you've found.

@summary
locate all the areas on your property that meet or exceed the recommended distances from nearby contamination sources.

@summary
locate the highest ground within the acceptable area, as this is usually the safest spot to construct a well.

@summary
do your homework.

@summary
ask around for referrals to certified well-drillers, and always research a contractor before hiring them.
@article
 You must locate all potential contamination sources on or near your property. These include, but aren't limited to:


Septic tanks and septic leach fields.
Stockyards and livestock barns.
Petroleum tanks and other chemical tanks, both above ground and below ground.
Fertilizer storage and/or application sites (croplands).
Manure stacks or effluent pools.
Saltwater intrusion from the coast.
Any streams, rivers, or lakes that have flooded any part of your property in the last 100 years.
Natural deposits of metals/minerals (like arsenic, cadmium, chromium, lead, selenium, or fluoride).
Call your county health officer for a list of contamination sources relevant to your area.;
, State/county websites are a good source of information, as is your county health office. Most places have several layers of regulation, so it's important to check with the most local regulating body to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and guidelines.
 Remember that further is better.
 Groundwater flows downhill and towards discharge locations (rivers and lakes), so choose a spot where the groundwater is probably not flowing from a contamination source (ranch, farm, sinkhole, landfill, neighbor's septic system).



Find out about wells in your area.
Become acquainted with the basic hydrology of your region - groundwater availability and safety is heavily determined by your local soils, geology, and water table.
If your neighbors have a well, ask how deep it is, what testing they have had done, and if they will let you see the results - or offer to have their water tested for them.
If you can, talk to someone at a local water testing lab or talk to a local university hydrologist.
 Once you have located a well-drilling company you can trust, listen to what their experts say about your property and best potential sites. It may be that the site you have in mind isn't viable for any number of reasons, so it's always best to leave your options open and not get too attached to any one location.

