@summary
ensure frontline is right for your cat.you can use frontline plus on your cat if they are eight weeks old or older and weigh more than 2.2 lbs (1kg).

@summary
ready the frontline plus.

@summary
apply the medication.

@summary
follow appropriate aftercare guidelines.after you’ve administered frontline plus to your cat, do not allow the animal to go swimming or bathe for at least 24 hours.
@article
 Talk to your veterinarian before administering Frontline Plus to cats who have other medical problems, or cats that are aged, breeding, pregnant, nursing, or taking other medications.


Always read the instructions for use before applying.
If your cat has skin lesions or irritation, talk to your vet before applying Frontline Plus.;
, If your cat is wearing a collar, remove it. Remove the applicator from the package. Holding the applicator upright, flick the neck to ensure the product is in the main body of the applicator, not the tip. Break off the end of the tube at the score line by snapping it away from your face and body., Hold the cat securely so they cannot move. You might need a friend or family member to hold the cat for you while you apply Frontline Plus. Part the cat's hair on the back of their neck so the skin is exposed. Place the tip of the applicator on the cat’s skin and gently squeeze the applicator until it is empty.Applying Frontline Plus to the area between the shoulder blades is important because that is an area out the cat's reach, where it will not be pawed at or licked off.
Do not apply Frontline Plus to your cat’s fur. The medicine is absorbed through the skin, and will not work if it only soaks the pet’s fur.
 Frontline Plus is also flammable, so keep your cat away from open heat or flame for 24 hours after administering.


Frontline might cause irritation at the application site. Don’t worry if you see your cat itching or scratching immediately after using the medication; however, if itching or irritation persists, contact your veterinarian.
Do not use Frontline Plus on your cat more than once per month. If you continue to have flea or tick infestations, re-apply the medication after one month.

