@summary
insert your windows installation media, whether it would be a disc, or a usb flash drive.

@summary
open the setup program.

@summary
click "go online to get the latest updates for installation (recommended)".

@summary
choose your windows edition.

@summary
choose if you will upgrade or clean install.

@summary
make sure the license terms are accepted, and setup will begin.

@summary
when setup is complete, enter a username and computer name.

@summary
enter your 25-character windows product key.

@summary
find yourself at the desktop.
@article
 For this example, we will use Windows 7 media.;
, Open Windows Explorer, navigate to your media, and run "Setup.exe".


You can also boot from the installation media. Make sure the setting in your BIOS is on if you decide to boot from the media. This is required if you are dual-booting.
Click Install Now when prompted.
For users who are upgrading, the option "Check Compatibility Online" may appear with "Install Now".
 After Setup starts, you may be asked if you would like to receive the latest updates for installation. Getting updates ensures that installation succeeds and update your PC.
 Depending on your media, you may be asked to choose the edition of Windows to install.


Always make sure your product key matches the correct version of Windows.
Keep in mind that your system cannot run a 64-bit OS without a 64-bit capable processor.
 Clean Installs don't keep files & settings.


You cannot upgrade a 32-bit edition to a 64-bit edition, and vise versa.
Upgrading will keep files and settings. Your PC will check compatibility with Windows 7.
Some XP users may not be able to directly upgrade. You may need to clean install.
 Setup may take several hours, so be patient.


It is normal for your PC to restart several times and flash.
If the prompt "Press any key to boot from CD or DVD" appears during a setup restart, do not press a key. Windows will proceed to boot from setup.
 After that, proceed with the on-screen instructions.
 The product key is similar to this:XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX-XXXXX


Type your key slowly, and ensure you typed it correctly.
DO NOT illegally get product keys. You should purchase a legal, genuine product key.
 Click the Start Orb, and click "Getting Started" to help you get started with your new version of Windows.

