@summary
direct your teen to make calls only during appropriate hours.

@summary
discourage your teen from using the phone when angry.if they text or call someone while angry, they might say something they regret.

@summary
turn the phone off as needed.if your teen is in class, in church, at the library or movie theatre, or at another function that demands silence, remind them to turn their phone off.

@summary
remind your teen to use their camera responsibly.direct your child to always ask before taking photos of others.
@article
 Standard phone etiquette means that you don’t place calls before 7:00 on weekdays or before 9:30 on weekends. If you call before these times, you – or your teen – might wake someone up. You should also not call during dinner time, since people do not want to have their meals and family time interrupted.Tell your teen that the last phone call of the day should be made no later than 10:00, since after that, most people will be asleep in bed.
 Ask your teen to think of a time when they were angry and said or did something that they later regretted. By helping them remember past regrets, you’ll help them understand why good phone etiquette means communicating in a cool, calm, and collected manner.


Alternately, or in addition to encouraging them to recall a time they lashed out in anger, you could share an example from your own life in which you said something (either in person or over the phone) that you later felt bad about. This is another way to help them see the dangers of using the phone while angry.
 If it goes off, it will both embarrass your teen and irritate those around them. And if you’re with your teen when their phone goes off at an inappropriate time, it will embarrass you, too.


At the very least, recommend to your teen to use the silent mode. In silent mode, the phone remains on but will rapidly vibrate so they can still receive alerts that they are receiving a call. They can then exit the quiet environment and go somewhere to take the call or answer the text message.
Encourage them to turn off their phone while studying or working. This can help improve their focus. Furthermore, if they are working with other people, their phone will not be a distraction to the group.
 Some people do not like having their photo taken. Good etiquette requires your teen to think about their privacy as well as their friend’s privacy when sending and receiving photos.


Remind your child that photos sent with “temporary” message services like Snapchat might not be truly temporary. To protect their privacy, encourage your child to refrain from sending inappropriate photos.
Teach your child to be cautious posting photos online. They should ask other people before putting their picture on social media, and they should not post embarrassing pictures of themselves. These can come back to haunt them later.

