@summary
make sure you have what it takes to be a physical therapist.

@summary
get a bachelor's degree from a four-year university with a focus in science-based courses.while you don't necessarily have to obtain a bs (bachelor of science), the post-graduate program you apply to may have prerequisites in biology, chemistry, anatomy, or physiology.if you are currently an undergraduate and plan on becoming a physical therapist, talk to a counselor at your school to determine which courses you should be taking and whether you have chosen the right major.

@summary
obtain a post-graduate professional degree.some post-graduate physical therapy programs offer a doctor of physical therapy (dpt) degree, while others offer a master of physical therapy (mpt) degree, though the dpt is far more common.

@summary
obtain a license to practice physical therapy.
@article
 Before you jump into the educational program that is required for you to be a physical therapist, you should have a clear sense of what this career entails. If you want to obtain licensure and enjoy a career as a physical therapist, you should be prepared to do the following tasks:


Diagnose your patients' dysfunctional movements by watching them move around and listening to their complaints and concerns.
Devise an individualized plan for each patient, understanding the patients' goals.
Use hands-on therapy, stretches, and exercises to help ease the pain of your patients and improve their mobility.
Evaluate the progress of your patients and modify their treatment plans as needed.
Tell your patients and their families about what they should expect as they recover from their injuries.
Provide emotional support to your patients as you help them deal with their injuries.;
,


Common undergraduate majors for physical therapists include biology, psychology, and exercise science.You don't have to major in a science-based field, but you will have to take several courses that meet the prerequisite standards of your chosen post-graduate program. This means that you could major in Art History, Spanish, or another unrelated field, while taking the required courses to become a physical therapist.The average GPA for students accepted to physical therapy programs in 2011-2012 was 3.52, so be prepared to study rigorously during your time as an undergraduate.
If you'd like to be a physical therapists' assistant, then you can earn an associates degree instead.There are a few physical therapy programs that allow students to enter directly after they graduate from high school. If you're interested in one of these freshman entry programs, you should look into them while you're still in high school., Doctoral programs typically last for 3 years, while Master's programs last 2-3 years.The coursework covered includes anatomy, physiology, biomechanics, and neuroscience. Check out this link to find PT programs in your area.The program you choose may also involve completing a clinical rotation, during which you will gain hands-on experience working in the field.You may need to complete the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) to be accepted to the institute of your choice.The application process for post-graduate programs in physical therapy is competitive. To help your chances of acceptance, you should gain experience as a volunteer or a worker in a physical-therapy setting.You will need to provide 1-4 letters of reference when you apply to physical therapy programs, so make sure to build meaningful connections with your teachers and mentors before you apply.
Make sure you choose the right PT program. Compare the programs based on their locations, areas of specialty, licensure passing rate, and financial aid packages.
 Specific license requirements vary between states, but most states require that prospective candidates pass the National Physical Therapy Examination (NPTE).Determine your state's requirements for physical therapy licenses.

