@summary
find a sewing pattern for a sleeved shirt and a fabric to use.

@summary
reduce the width of your pattern at the shoulder by making new marks on it.

@summary
cut your pattern along the new lines.

@summary
trace your pattern onto the fabric.there are a variety of tools you can use to do this, but it is most important to use a tool that will wash out or leave no mark, if possible.

@summary
trim two extra strips of fabric on the bias in order to finish the armholes.this is a type of finish on the armholes that will give them a polished look.

@summary
follow the directions of the pattern to sew most of the shirt together, including the neckline.

@summary
fold and press your binding to begin the process of finishing the armholes.

@summary
pin the binding around the armholes.

@summary
make a small mark on the binding where it meets the side seam.use a washable pen or other fabric-friendly tool to do this.

@summary
pull the bias tape, or the binding, away from the shirt.

@summary
sew all the way around the armhole.

@summary
press the binding away from the shirt at the new seam you just made.you should now have a small “sleeve” sticking out from the armhole and are ready to finish off the armhole.

@summary
use a sewing machine to stitch the armhole closed around the folded edge.this is the last step in polishing the arm hole on a sleeveless shirt made from scratch.
@article
 If you like to make your own clothes, this is a method in which you can turn a sleeved pattern into a sleeveless one.


Almost any pattern of sleeved shirt will work for this.
Be sure that you are buying a pattern for the style of shirt you want (e.g. men's, women's, baby's, child's, et cetera).
Buy enough fabric to make the entire shirt so that you can avoid sewing scraps together.
 Remember that a sleeved shirt extends the width of the shoulder all the way to the tip, but sleeveless shirts usually do not.Use a pencil to make your new markings.
How much you shorten the width is up to you, but keep in mind that you will lose an additional 3/8 inch when you finish the seam on the sleeveless arm hole.
Try to make about the same new angle and curve on both sleeves so that they look the same. You may want to curve the front of the shirt a bit more than the back, simply for aesthetics.
 Before you start cutting your chosen fabric, you need to cut out your new pattern.


Carefully cut along your new lines, keeping your new curves as much as possible.
Prepare your pattern to trace onto the fabric.
 If it is a tool that claims to be washable, do a trial run first by marking an old shirt or scrap piece of fabric and washing it.


Washable pens
Tracing wheel and dressmaker's carbon
Hera marker
Chalk pencil
Tailor's chalk
Tailor's tacks

,


Measure your armholes and then add 3-4 inches to account for sewing.
The fabric strips should be about an inch wide.
These strips are also known as “binding.”

, Stop once you have reached the point of sewing the shoulder and side seams together., Lay your strips flat with the patterned side down.Fold one edge of the binding ¼ inch over the non-patterned side, and then press it flat.
Repeat with the second strip of binding.
 Start at the side seam.Leave at least an inch of excess fabric hanging before inserting the first pin at the side seam.
Put the unfolded edge of the binding along the edge of the armhole, so that the folded edge is closer to the breast of the shirt.
The right sides of the shirt and the binding should be together, meaning that the patterned side of the binding should be against the patterned side of the shirt, which should be right side out.
Continue to pin the binding all the way around the armhole.



Repeat this on the binding of the other armhole.
This is where you will sew the two ends together so that they will meet along the side seam.
 You may need to remove a couple of pins in order to do this.Sew the bias tape, with the patterned sides touching, at the marks you made on the fabric.
Trim any excess fabric off after sewing (remember that you left at least an inch before pinning).
Press open the small bit of fabric left after sewing and trimming and pin it to the armhole at the side seam.
 Leave 3/8 inch distance between the seam you are making and the edge.A sewing machine is recommended for this process, as it will be faster and straighter.



Flip the shirt inside out after doing this.
Fold the binding again along the ¼ inch edge that you made previously, and then fold it again along the seam.
Pin all the way around the armhole, with the binding folded in twice around it.



Repeat the process on the other armhole.
Press the new seam around the armhole one more time to give it a crisp edge, and you are done.

