@summary
see if any local resources offer a beekeeping course.

@summary
read up on beekeeping.

@summary
purchase a "starter" kit.

@summary
get some bees.

@summary
very broad stroke here but basically you set up your hive in a place where there are nearby flowers.

@summary
you will add another deep frame on top of that when they have the lower one full.

@summary
when they almost fill the second you add a screen on top of the two that has a grid large enough to let bees through but not the queen.

@summary
they may fill that shallow body.

@summary
this is only a basic idea of how it works.
@article
 It may cost you a couple hundred dollars, but the experience will teach you the many things you'll need to know about bees and keeping them. Check with your state's public college or university's cooperative extension. States with schools that specialize in agriculture are most likely to host such a course.;
, Numerous books and websites offer advice and instructions, but make sure the author is well-versed in the topic (reading their biography may help). These books offer great help for the beginner:

, This will include the necessary equipment you'll need to get going with bees. It should include:


Hive Bodies
Frames
Bottom Board
Entrance Reducer
Hive Outer Cover
Hive Inner Cover
Feeder
Varroa Screen/Monitoring Tray
Hard Plastic Helmet
Round Tie-down Veil
Stainless Steel Smoker with Heat Shield
Hive Tool
Gloves

, Contact a local beekeeping association for advice on where to get your bees.
 The kind of flowers will affect the flavor of the honey. Your hive will have a deep body with frames in it. The bees will fill that frame with comb.
 They will then fill that body. You add it simply by stacking it atop the first. The deep bodies have no top or bottom so they can be stacked.
 Then add a shallow body on top of that. This honey will be yours.
 Then you can add a second. Depending upon several factors you may get several shallow bodies stacked up in one hive.
 You need to read about it.

