@summary
choose socks that absorb sweat.because the likelihood of developing a fungal infection relates to the degree of moisture (fungi thrive in moist environments), choosing socks that are made of a material that does not absorb the moisture of sweat can be a very helpful preventative step.

@summary
consider your choice of footwear.in addition to thriving in moist environments, fungi also thrive in confined spaces.

@summary
do not walk barefoot in public places.while wearing confining shoes for a long period of time can be a risk factor for fungal infections, so, too, can walking barefoot in public places where fungi may be present.

@summary
wear rubber gloves to keep moisture off your hands.for tasks such as cleaning or washing dishes, where your fingernails may be exposed to dirt and moisture, one option is to wear rubber gloves.

@summary
understand why fungal infections are more common on the toenails than on the fingernails.while it is possible to develop a fungal infection on your toenails as well as your fingernails, the toenails are far more common.
@article



Socks made of nylon, polypropylene, or wool are all great options.
Change your socks often, especially if you have sweaty feet.
It is best to avoid cotton socks if possible.
 This is why wearing tight shoes throughout the day - and particularly old shoes - can increase your risk of developing a nail fungal infection.


Consider wearing open-toed shoes for part of the day if this is an option for you.
Also replace old shoes with new ones. Alternatively, you can use a disinfectant or an antifungal powder in old shoes to get rid of any possible contamination.
Wear separate shoes for exercise than you do for work and everyday life. Exercise shoes hold a lot of sweat and moisture so may predispose you more to fungal infections.
 Wear sandals while walking at public swimming pools, in the shower room, and in the locker room. This will greatly diminish your chance of contracting a nail fungal infection.
 However, it is important to dry the gloves thoroughly after each use. Flip the gloves inside out to ensure that the inside is dry as well as the outside.
 This is because your feet spend more time in confined spaces (such as wearing socks and shoes), and may also be exposed to more moisture (such as the sweat and dampness from these environments).


The toes are also located further from the heart, so the circulation is weaker than it is to the fingers.
Poorer circulation correlates to a decreased ability for your immune system to fight off potential fungal infections.

