@summary
see the logic, "if the universe created itself, how did something come from nothing?",

@summary
poof!,

@summary
rub a glass rod with wool, or put a "lightning rod" in or near a puddle (tidal pool), let the ocean vents bask in sunlight: then could static electricity or an electrical flash of lightning like an explosion near a puddle such as a tidal pool, or sunshine piercing darkness cause the initializing of intracellular, mitochondrial energy creation, by "purposeless" living cells that would then begin regulated processes, respiring, digesting, and of course reproducing -- to somehow achieve "genetic programming of uniqueness" but still be the same in multitudes of meaningful ways -- programming of instincts and immune system, healing of injuries, nerves, nerves cooperating, nerves communicating, autonomic life processes (automated) like respiration, hundreds or millions of interrelated, interdependent reactions and systems,... well, genes contain unique dna, as coded plans.

@summary
explain the membrane of the single cell eukaryotes.
@article
 Even scientists say that the expanding universe is not eternal. It has not existed forever. There was a starting point and before that there was a chunk of matter? So if the universe wasn't there before, how did that chunk of matter come to be -- just "POOF" and it appeared by God's will?

, and "Oh, it was just there." makes no sense at all. While quantum fluctuations, or the creation of particles out of nowhere is a real thing, they are not likely to create whole universes out of chance. So what if DNA took millions of years to develop, then it still needed an enclosed environment (a cell) and organelles (cell parts)... But if there is a God - an all powerful God would have the power to create something out of nothing, not because of any preconceived or preeminent matter, but because the all powerful God can do that by definition!

, So each expression of a gene involves communicating their definitive coded information within the living cell. Those highly specific genetic "blueprints" tell the cells which proteins, mineral compounds and enzymes to make for each system. And even such essential nutritional things as vitamins can profoundly affect their interdependent processes. So how, from where, and why did even the simplest life with the many thousand of exquisite instructions, come to be -- to say nothing of expressing millions, billions or trillions of instructions defining individual, personal, and the recognizable racial, tribal and family traits -- from an all powerful God, outside of time, beyond universal limits by definition?

, Plant cell structure is not a simple matter!
1.) Eukaryotes are all cellular organisms including animal, plants, fungi -- and protists (slime molds and protozoans) -- whose cells are organized into interrelated, interdependent structures inside of selective semipermeable membranes.
2.) Where did the semipermeable, cytoplasmic membrane (the skin of a cell) and its fluid serum and its first foods come from? Cannibalism -- of... well so that's your answer? Where did that cannibal find enough life to cannibalize?


Veggies (plant-life) and proteins were the baby food of the first cell? Oh, so how and why were these plants and proteins available? So then the veggies have interrelated, interdependent cell structure and would need organic materials in plant energy production from the very first second.
Wasn't life much too interrelated, interdependent for mother nature to solve a million crucial balanced systems without knowing! So she did all of that without a brain or any observable form of intelligence?Plant Cell Structure Photo Image: If millions (or billions) of years of storms in junk yards could never create a modern computer or a beautiful machine of any kind, then what logic says that chaos can create amazing life like one typical cell of a plant and bring it to an excellent, interrelated, interdependent status -- well beyond a virus or simple "germ of life."