@summary
plan your meals.

@summary
double your usual water intake the day before a race.

@summary
stay off of your feet as much as possible the day before you race.you want to meet the start line with every part of your body feeling refreshed and well-rested.

@summary
eat complex carbohydrates throughout the day.grazing on small quantities of complex carbohydratesthroughout the day the day before a race can help you establish the fuel you will need for race-day energy.however, you shouldn’t overload on carbs or attend an all-you-can-eat spaghetti dinner the night before the race.

@summary
sleep well the night before the race.you should really be sure that you have slept well the whole week of the race; the sleep you get the night before may be less important than the sleep you have “banked” from the rest of the week.
@article
 You should not experiment with new meals or nutritional approaches right before a race.The nutritional approach that you used for training should be adequate for race day as well. If you tend to get nervous before events, be sure that you eat a hearty dinner the night before the race in case you are unable to eat well the day of due to nerves.


You should plan to eat breakfast in the morning,then take additional food with you to eat just before the start of the race. For example, you could start with oatmeal at home and follow it up with a banana or an apple after you register.
You may also want to consider whether you need food to eat during or after the race.
Be sure that you purchase any food ahead of time so you do not have to scramble to find things the morning of the race.
 Keep a water bottle in your hand and sip from it all day.You should also drink plenty of water the morning of the race so your body stays hydrated.


To find out if you are dehydrated, check your urine color. The more yellow your urine appears, the more likely it is that you are dehydrated.
Avoid diuretics, which make your body lose water, such as caffeine (tea and coffee) and alcohol.
 Some runners take the entire day off, while others insist on a light jog.


This should be the end of your race-day taper. You should have reduced your training the week of the race.



Your last big meal should be 48 hours before a race;opt for more, smaller meals the day of the race.
Avoid fats and alcohol the day before a race. You may also want to avoid trying new foods, as you never know how your body may react.



Also make sure your alarm clock is working properly or set alarms on two different devices. Leave yourself plenty of time to eat, relax and get to the starting line on time.

