@summary
practice decoding words.people with dyslexia often have difficulty decoding words and often focus so much on decoding that they don’t remember what they have read.word decoding can improve your reading fluency which will help improve your reading comprehension.

@summary
ignore, then address spelling.

@summary
use models when writing.because people with dyslexia may struggle with remembering correct letter and number formation, it helps to keep a picture or have someone write a great example of the characters that give you the most difficulty to refer to when needed.an index card with uppercase and lowercase letters, as well as numbers handwritten on it, is an unobtrusive may to have character models.

@summary
plan and review your writing.thinking about what you want to write before you begin writing can help focus your writing.
@article



Use flash cards on a regular basis to familiarize yourself with frequently used words and letter combinations.
Read ‘easy’ text just for the decoding practice. See if you can decrease the amount of time it takes for you to read the text.
Read aloud often. Because of the difficulties with decoding words, reading aloud can be a challenging and sometimes embarrassing experience for people with dyslexia.
 Often when people with dyslexia are writing, they become so focused on spelling words correctly that they lose their train of thought. Try to ignore spelling when you are writing a draft. Focus only on getting your ideas out. Then, go back later and review the document for spelling mistakes.

Flashcards can also serve the dual purpose of reviewing letter sounds and showing what they look like.
 It can also help you manage your time. Reviewing your writing enables you to catch any spelling, grammatical, or other errors.


Think about what your main idea is, what details support it, and how you want to conclude.
Read your writing aloud. It is sometimes easier to spot mistakes this way.
Have someone else read your writing to you so you can hear how your ideas flow together.

