@summary
choose an appropriate field.while you could technically be a mad scientist in any field, the films, tv shows, and books that feature mad scientists tend to concentrate on a few specific field.

@summary
take risks.the mad scientist is someone who tries untested technologies and explores new scientific territory.

@summary
rise to the top of your field.mad scientists are often admirable in at least some respects.

@summary
build or invent something wild.mad scientists are always tinkering and designing new devices, machines, and creations.

@summary
practice ethical behavior.
@article
 Going into a field that is commonly associated with mad scientists could help you act like one.


The most common fields for mad scientists are biology, mechanical engineering, and biotechnology.
On the other hand, relatively few mad scientists have backgrounds in chemistry, psychology, and neuroscience.
If you don’t want to take your act all the way and get a PhD in the scientific field of your choice, that’s understandable.
 In this respect, mad scientists are not so different from regular scientists. Look for areas in your own research where you could try some outside-the-box thinking and experimentation (within limits).


What makes the mad scientist a despised and evil character is their tendency to pursue research even when it is unethical or causes harm. Mad scientists pursue new research and experiments not for the good of all mankind, but to accumulate power and satisfy their own desire to know or do something just because they can.
Do not take unreasonable or unnecessary risks. Remember, acting like a mad scientist doesn’t mean actually becoming a mad scientist.
 They have excellent problem-solving skills and might even revolutionize their fields. Whether you’re a physicist, biologist, or computer programmer, work hard to excel in your field. Pour yourself into your work in order to find success in your scientific profession.


Do not neglect your other responsibilities at home or school in pursuit of scientific excellence.
Do not fall into the trap that real mad scientists do by believing that your discoveries or accomplishments make you superior to others. Stay humble by reflecting on and staying aware of the things you do not do well.
 Dr. Frankenstein had his monster, and Dr. Moreau had his human-animal hybrids. You do not need to create anything so ambitious (nor should you) in order to act like a mad scientist. Just use your own creativity and brilliance to create something that people have not seen before.


You could try your hand at building a solar-powered death ray. These devices allow you to focus the sun’s energy on a single point, summoning enough energy to melt metal and glass.Always exercise caution when making and using potentially dangerous devices or machines.
 Even though mad scientists are unethical, you should take steps to ensure your mad scientist persona does not lead you to overstep your bounds.Do not hide your research or pretend that you are working on one project when you are actually working on another. Cite other papers or research you used to develop your own hypotheses or experimental methods, and acknowledge scientists who have done similar experiments of projects before you.Familiarize yourself with best practices and laws.Many technological and scientific fields exist at the bleeding edge of research and development.


Stem cell research, cloning, and genomics, especially, are associated with many thorny issues about who can use the research and technology and how it should be used. Learn more about the rules, regulations, and ethical problems associated with your particular field.

