@summary
demonstrate that kids can have social lives even while homeschooled.one of the primary myths about homeschooled kids is that they are weird social outcasts who cannot function with other people because they haven’t had a school experience with their peers.

@summary
show that homeschooling is not a form of parental indoctrination.

@summary
show that homeschooled kids are happier than other students.if a homeschooled student doesn’t like a particular subject, they can express it to their tutor or parent.

@summary
explain that homeschooling doesn’t need to be absolute.homeschooled kids have the option of attending certain classes at their local public schools.

@summary
argue that homeschooled kids can be themselves.in a public school surrounded by their peers, students tend to feel the need to look and act a certain way.
@article
 However, there are plenty of opportunities for socialization outside of school. Share information about how homeschooled kids can:


form friendships with the other children in their neighborhood
join community sports teams
get jobs and make friends that way (when they are of age)
join a homeschooled students’ organization to meet up and socialize with other homeschooled studentsparticipate in extracurricular activities at public schools, including sports teams, debate clubs, chess clubs, and so on.
 Some people believe that homeschooling is only or typically used by parents who are overly controlling and want to “brainwash” their kids.However, you could argue that enrolling children in public school does not guarantee they will not be “indoctrinated” by their parents during the hours when they are not in school. Remind your opposition that parents who insist on restricting their children’s exposure to the real world in some way often send their children to private schools that line up with their worldview and values.


Even when they send their kids to public schools, parents are often extremely selective. In Washington, D.C., for instance, whites comprise 40% of the population, but only 5% of all public school students are white., If the tutor or parent sees the child’s point of view, they might choose to adjust the curriculum. Alternately, if a child is really interested in a particular topic, they might be able to get their parents to introduce more information about that topic into their education. Explain that this flexibility makes homeschooled students happier and more productive.
 Many kids go to public school for an hour or two each day, then get the rest of their schooling at home. Classes which might best be learned in an environment with other students – like art, music, and drama – are available. Encourage homeschooling skeptics to talk to their local public schools about such arrangements for more information.
 Schoolchildren are susceptible to direct and indirect pressure at school. This pressure might inspire them to engage in risky behavior like drugs, drinking, or sex. It might make them want to buy certain expensive items of clothing or jewelry. Homeschool skeptics will be interested to know that in a homeschooled environment, students are free of these pressures and can more easily express who they truly are.

