@summary
use a marker sound.marker sounds are sounds that please the dog and let it know it has done something right.

@summary
practice the marker sound.the goal of using a marker sound, whether it’s a word or a clicker, is for the dog to create a positive association with the sound.

@summary
find a treat your dog likes.
@article
 The marker sound could be a word or a sound. The most common marker words are “Yes!” or “Good dog!” Marker sounds are usually made by a clicker, a small hand-held device that helps in dog training.


You can obtain a clicker at most local pet stores.
While you can use either a clicker or a word/phrase when deciding on a marker sound, clickers tend to be used by professional trainers and show dogs, while marker words offering enthusiasm and praise are more common for regular pets.
You could use both together. However, whatever sound you choose, ensure you do it the same every time. In other words, don’t say “Yes!” one time, then “Awesome!” another time. If you use both a clicker and marker word, don’t change it up and start using just one or just the other.;
, To do this, “ambush” your dog with your chosen marker sound 10-15 times each day for about a week.


When your dog is sitting down, playing outside, chasing its tail, or doing any other activity, deploy your marker sound and then immediately give your dog a tasty treat.
This way, your dog will associate the sound with a tasty snack and the good feeling that goes along with it.
 There are many dog treats available in pet stores. Popular treats include peanut butter, sausage, sweet potato, and bacon flavored treats. Let your dog sample a variety to discover which it likes best. The more enthusiastic your dog is about receiving a treat, the more willing he or she will be to learn to stand.


Avoid treats with artificial colors, artificial preservatives, and added sugars.
Treats made with organic ingredients are best.
If a sweetener is added, it should be natural, not corn syrup or sugar.Your doggie will love natural sweeteners like applesauce, molasses, and agave nectar.
All treats should be bite-sized.

