@summary
recognize the symptoms of scarlet fever.it usually affects people who have strep throat, as it's caused by the same streptococcus bacteria.

@summary
seek immediate medical attention.although scarlet fever itself is generally a mild illness, if left untreated it can result in rheumatic fever.

@summary
get a medical diagnosis.the doctor will perform a physical exam in which he examines the throat, tonsils, and tongue.

@summary
take the prescribed antibiotics.because scarlet fever is a bacterial infection, it responds well to antibiotic treatment.

@summary
be prepared for the side effects of antibiotics.about one in ten people experience side effects from antibiotics.

@summary
watch for signs of improvement.
@article
 In rare cases, it may be caused by streptococcal skin infections. Anyone can contract scarlet fever, but it occurs primarily in children under age ten. Especially in children, look for the following symptoms of scarlet fever:


Red, sore throat
Fever
Red rash that feels like sandpaper
Bright red skin in underarm, elbow and groin creases
A whitish coating on the tongue or back of the throat
A "strawberry" red tongue
Headache
Nausea or vomiting
Abdominal pain
Swollen glands
Body aches;
, Rheumatic fever is a serious condition that can cause inflammation of the heart, joints, and nervous system. Other complications that sometimes arise from scarlet fever include:


Kidney disease
Ear and skin infections
Abscesses in the throat
Pneumonia
Arthritis

, He'll also feel the neck to check for enlarged lymph nodes and examines the rash. To confirm the diagnosis, he will take a throat swab and have it analyzed for the presence of the strep bacteria.
 These medications should be taken precisely as prescribed to ensure successful treatment. Though not all of these medications will be prescribed, the doctor will recommend whichever combination will best treat your specific case:


Amoxicillin: three 30 – 50 mg/kg doses per day for ten days.
Augmentin: 30 – 50 mg /kg/day in divided doses given every 12 hours for ten days.
Biaxin: an alternative for patients allergic to Penicillin antibiotics like Amoxicillin and Augmentin. 250 mg is taken orally every 12 hours for ten days. It is available in liquid form for children in doses of 250 mg/5cc.
Zithromax or Azithromycin: 500 mg orally on day one and 250 mg daily on days two through five.
Keflex: 500 mg four times daily for ten days for adults or children over 12. It's available in liquid form for children in doses of 25 – 50 mg/kg/day in divided doses.
 Luckily, these effects are usually fairly mild, and pass whenever you've completed treatment. In most cases, side effects affect the digestive system:


Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Bloating and indigestion
Stomach pain
Loss of appetite

, Within two days of starting antibiotics, you should see an improvement in symptoms like sore throat and fever. You should feel more energetic and begin regaining your appetite. The rash will last a little longer, and will heal over several days or weeks. As it heals, the skin will peel off — this is perfectly normal, so don't panic!Let your doctor know if you’re not responding on schedule. It may suggest further complications that need to be addressed.

