@summary
take time to meditate each day.this can help you hone and understand your abilities as a medium.

@summary
cultivate your vision.your vision relates to your ability to see the past, present, and future.

@summary
ask your friends what you say to them.

@summary
listen to your intuition.

@summary
build up your spiritual knowledge base.spend time reading books about subjects like psychometry, numerology, scrying, tarot reading, and healing.

@summary
spend time with other mediums.
@article
 Try to meditate for around thirty minutes each day.


Choose a quiet spot to be a dedicated area for your meditation. Light a candle to focus on while you meditate.
After your meditation, write down the strongest impressions, feelings, or images that came to you during that time.
Look back on those notes at a later to date to see if a pattern emerges and to see if you can interpret a meaning from them. These may be messages from the spirit world.
The more you meditate, the more you will be able to sharpen your focus.
 Even if you are highly intuitive, you’ll need to work to cultivate your vision to see truly.


Keep a journal. While meditation helps cultivate your understanding of the present, writing down your thoughts and days in a journal can help to stretch your memory, and in time, will help you see whether you can see past lives other than your own.
Purify your thoughts. You can’t be a receptive vessel as a medium if your mind is clouded with negativity. Work to counter your negative recurring thoughts and focus on the positives.
 You will want to know if your friends have any insight into how you act when you’re unaware. This will give you an idea of your abilities and how you come across to others.


Often, mediums may give out deep advice that they don’t remember giving as soon as it’s left them.
Write down what your friends tell you, so you can look back on it and connect it to other visions or feelings.
 Doubt is one of the many inhibiting factors people face as they are trying to understand whether they are a medium and learn how to enhance their ability.


Allow yourself to explore the possibility of your ability.
Listen to your gut feelings.



This knowledge will help you to better connect to your own interpretive abilities and understand the symbols that you may already see.
 Look online for reviews of reputable psychics and mediums in your area. Go see one and ask them to read you.


While you are there, ask them how they knew they were a medium.
Get a feel for their process, and look around to see what kinds of talismans they keep in their office.

