@summary
see your physician if you have any reason to suspect a possible lymphoma.if you notice a suspicious lymph node, a concerning lesion on your skin, or generalized "red flags" signs of possible cancer, you will want to book an immediate appointment with your doctor.

@summary
proceed with your regular psoriasis medications.it is key to note that there is no current evidence to alter your psoriasis medications as a means to reduce your risk of developing lymphoma.

@summary
opt for regular skin screening by a physician.
@article
 You may even be sent to see a skin specialist (a dermatologist) to more carefully examine the area of concern and to perform diagnostic tests as needed.


To diagnose CTCL, a skin biopsy will suffice. A skin biopsy can differentiate between psoriasis lesions and lesions that are a possible cutaneous lymphoma (CTCL).
A lymph node biopsy will be needed to rule in or rule out the presence of cancer (Hodgkin's lymphoma) in a suspicious lymph node.
Note that you may need to receive multiple evaluations (skin biopsies, and/or lymph node biopsies) if the initial biopsies are inconclusive.
Sometimes the diagnosis of cancer (lymphoma) becomes more obvious on biopsies over time, so follow your physician's recommendations and receive appropriate follow-up tests as needed.
 The heightened risk of lymphoma is thought to be more likely related to the underlying disease process of psoriasis, rather than to the medical treatments.It is possible that some of the immunosuppressive therapies of psoriasis may heighten your risk of lymphoma;however, at this point, the evidence is insufficient to recommend changes to your psoriasis medication regime.
 If you are concerned about your risk for lymphoma, you can ask your doctor about coming in for periodic "cancer screening" exams. This may include a complete evaluation of your skin lesions, to ensure that all of them are related to psoriasis and not to a possible cancer, as well as an examination of your lymph nodes. This would not necessarily find a lymphoma if it was in a more deep lymph node that was not right under the skin, however, such as lymph nodes near the lungs or in the abdomen.

