@summary
wear some bright or bold lipstick to draw attention away from your nose.outline your lip using a matching lip liner first, then fill your lips in with the lip liner.

@summary
avoid wearing heavy eye makeup.

@summary
use your hair to draw attention away from your nose.

@summary
know what hair styles to avoid.

@summary
choose the right accessories.
@article
 Apply the lipstick either directly from the tube or with a lipstick brush. Blot the lipstick with a piece of folded tissue, then apply a second coat, if necessary.
 This can draw attention towards the center of your face, which in turn can draw attention towards the center of your face. Instead, consider doing a more natural looking eye makeup using neutral colors.








Shadows under the eyes can also draw attention towards the center of the face. Consider using some concealer to hide under-eye shadows.Choose a color that matches your skin tone, and apply it using your ring finger. When blending the concealer, try to blend downwards, towards your cheeks.
 Big, curly hair will draw more attention than a big nose. Another thing to consider is which way you part your hair. If you part your hair straight down the center, you are directing the eye straight down towards your nose.If you part your hair off to the side, you are drawing the eye away from the nose. Here are some other types of hairstyles that might draw attention away from your nose:








Side parts
Layers that frame the face
Soft curls or waves
Loose, messy, or scruffy up-dos
Try adding more volume to the back of your head to make your nose look shorter., Certain hairstyles draw the focus inward, towards the center of your face. For example, large bangs that cover up your eyes will prevent people from making eye contact with you. Since they can't look at your eyes, they will look at the next closest feature: your nose. Here are some other hairstyles that tend to draw attention to the nose:Center parts that draw the eye downward towards the center of the nose
Straight-across cuts
Sleek and straight styles
Tight ponytails

, Try wearing some earrings or a necklace. The sparkle will draw attention away from your nose. You can also try wearing a hat. If you wear glasses, skip the small, thin frames, and go for the larger ones. They will naturally dwarf your nose and make it appear smaller.