@summary
assess whether peeling paint is caused by too many layers of old paint.

@summary
look for bubbling, which is caused by trapped water vapors.

@summary
remove powdery areas known as chalking from the exterior of a house by washing the area with powdered laundry detergent and water or trisodium phosphate (tsp).

@summary
know that rusty nail heads in the siding leads to rusty spots in your exterior paint.

@summary
avoid the exterior paint problems of cracking and chipped surfaces with better preparation, such as sanding, filling and priming exterior surfaces.

@summary
troubleshoot paint problems of gray, black or brown spots by removing the mildew that causes it.

@summary
study crusty, salty deposits, also known as efflorescence or mottling, to discover the source of excessive moisture.

@summary
fix buckling of painted vinyl siding by using a shade no darker than the original.

@summary
take care of fading color by using better quality paint, particularly if the fading is worse with western and southern sun exposure.
@article
 Other possibilities are a poorly prepared surface or too much moisture. To fix peeling paint:


Remove peeling paint by power washing, sanding or calling in a professional to use a torch.
Repair any problem areas in the wood with vinyl spackling compound.
Sand the exterior, particularly the speckled areas.
Paint the patches with an oil-based sealer.
Resume house painting with a quality paint.;
,


Make certain the exterior of the house and the area underneath the siding is dry before painting.
Avoid painting in extreme heat, which is another cause of bubbling known as blistering.
Blistering pops up when paint is too thin or the surface hasn't been prepped properly.



Chalking occurs when the layers of paint are too thin or from ineffective priming.
Prime the surface before repainting with quality paint.
Applying a surface bonder with primer can help coats of paint bond with the surface.
 This also comes from excess moisture.


Replace rusty nails with rust resistant fasteners, such as ceramic coated construction screws or hot-dipped galvanized nails.
When it's not possible to remove nails, sand the nail heads and apply a rust converter to them.
Treat rust stains with a shellac-based primer-sealer that doesn't allow bleed through. Paint finishing coats over the sealer.



Use a quality acrylic latex exterior paint to avoid cracking from changes in temperature.



Remove mildew with a diluted bleach solution made of 1 part bleach to 3 parts water. Let it sit for several minutes before wiping it away.
Prepare and prime mildew-free surfaces.
Use a quality latex acrylic for house painting, because it resists mildew more than other types of paint.



Remove the crusty areas with a stiff brush or power washer.
Apply a masonry sealer after the exterior dries completely and before you apply the finishing coats.
 Darker colors absorb the heat, causing the siding to expand.


Paint with acrylic latex in a lighter color.



Lapping marks in color can be avoided by painting smaller areas at a time and in cooler weather with limited wind.

