@summary
scoop out the dough from its container or bowl and set it on top of a cutting board.

@summary
knead the dough lightly.

@summary
get your marshmallows.

@summary
put the marshmallow in the center of the circle.

@summary
using your thumb and index finger, slide the dough smoothly over the marshmallow, like wrapping a dumpling.

@summary
roll the dough-wrapped marshmallow between your palm until it's shaped like a plump sausage.

@summary
continue making, wrapping, and smoothing the cookies until you have about twelve and the mound of dough is gone.

@summary
bake the cookies at 375 degrees fahrenheit for 10-12 minutes or until done.

@summary
if you want, you can add sprinkles, chocolate chips, or icing.
@article


You might want to cover the surface with a nonstick sheet, so the dough doesn't stick and make a mess.
Make sure your hands are clean. No one likes germs in their cookies!
If the dough is homemade, you can skip this part.;
,

You can grease your hands with a bit of the oil to make life easier.
To knead the dough, use the heel of your hand to push the dough away from you slightly. Then pull the dough back towards you, folding and flipping. Repeat this about eight times.
 The marshmallows should never be too big, or they'll expand and expand, pushing away the cookie layer.

Pinch off a small piece of dough, about the size of a five year-old's palm and flatten it into a small circle. Don't make it too thin, about medium thick.


Again, make sure your marshmallow is not too big. If it's bigger than the dough circle, cut it in half. It's still early, so you better make your move now.
 It's important that the dough is evenly smooth on all sides. Nobody wants deformed cookies.

If it's slightly lumpy, slide your fingers across that part until it's smooth.
If one patch is too thin, pinch a small piece of dough from the kneaded part of dough and make the ball even.


Do not flatten it until it's cookie-shaped. That will make the finished cookie bigger than your palm, and the marshmallow will melt completely.
Make sure the dough is thick enough for baking. Otherwise too thin cookies with shrivel up until they're as delicate and brittle as fingernails.
 Set the cookies on a baking tray lined with aluminum foil.

Make sure to give them some space.
If your baking tray is too small for twelve cookies, put some of the cookies on another tray.


Check the cookies now and then. If the marshmallows are rapidly expanding, stop the oven immediately and take out to cool.
When the cookies are done, take them out and set aside.
 Just don't go overboard! Remember, a cookie and marshmallow combined is enough to make you jittery. One cookie a day keeps the cravings away. Two cookies a day keeps the dieting away!

The cookies are best with a glass of cold milk. If you have a very sweet tooth, spoil yourself and serve with sliced fruit, chocolate milkshakes, buttercream frosting, and vanilla ice cream sundaes with hot fudge or caramel.

