@summary
move quietly.

@summary
speak less and think more.

@summary
practice good posture and reduce unnecessary movements.good posture will help you do things more energetically with minimal stress and fatigue on your body.

@summary
practice quiet and mindful breathing.by controlling their breathing, the ninja were able to take control of their stress levels and move more easily through dangerous situations.
@article
 One of the most important aspects of ninja training was learning how to move without being detected. Practice moving quickly, silently and efficiently. Only be seen in a crowd if you want to be seen. Learn how to disappear quickly from situations that you don’t want to be a part of.Avoid carrying things in your pockets that jingle or make noise. For example, car/house keys, loose change, etc.
If you have any buckles, straps or other gear that dangles off your person, get rid of them.
 Ninja didn’t spend a lot of time chatting and they kept their secrets closely guarded. Practice being comfortable in silence. Try to avoid filling awkward silences with mindless chatter. Allow yourself to be silent, focus on your breathing, and commit to doing more thinking than speaking.


If you have something to say, say it concisely. If you’re upset, take a deep breath and think before you speak.
Choose your words carefully. Speak in a low, controlled tone of voice.
 It allows you to operate at peak efficiency.Avoid pacing, twitching, fidgeting and other forms of unnecessary movement, which can make you seem either anxious or bored.When sitting or standing, pay attention to your movements. Do you tap your fingers or jiggle your foot without thinking about it?
Actively stop yourself from doing these things whenever you notice them.
 Breathe slowly in through your nose, then exhale slowly through your mouth. That is one breath – aim for sets of 10.


Practice holding your inhalation longer with each breath before you exhale.
When you’re practicing this, clear your mind and focus only on your breathing.