@summary
set up a board games table.

@summary
play interactive games.these games, like charades, will be a little more lively.

@summary
set up a diy photo booth.this is a great way to remember your high school graduation party.

@summary
give a graduation party toast.this can be a great way to honor the graduate and celebrate their great accomplishment.
@article
 At a graduation party, you want to make sure you have plenty of different activities to entertain your guests.Even if you are hosting an outdoor graduation party, having an indoor board games table can be a great way to give your guests an option to cool off inside.


Create a table where you can lay out all of your board games for people to choose from. Make sure you have plenty of chairs for guests to sit in.
Offer a variety of games. Choose some that can be played with as few as two people.
Board games are an easy activity to set up, and they will provide plenty of entertainment to your party guests without requiring you to facilitate.
 You can play games in pairs or teams.


Set up a large pad of paper have guests play Pictionary.Come up with your own clues. These can be random, or you can relate them back to graduation.
If you are outdoors, you can play games like Twister and cornhole. , Guests will enjoy playing with props and taking silly pictures, and they’ll have a memento from the occasion.


Use a large piece of paper or a sheet as a backdrop against a wall. This can be plain or patterned.
Add a banner that has the name of the graduate’s school and the year.
Use poster board to create props like speech bubbles, giant mustaches, and hats for party guests to hold up as they snap photos together on their phones.
 The person who gives the speech or toast should be someone who knows the graduate well, either a family member or good friend.


Make sure to speak to the specific strengths and accomplishments of the graduate, and wish them luck in the future.
Use quotes to make your speak more elegant.
Toast with champagne or sparkling juice.

