@summary
do not do an apple-based liver flush if you have certain medical conditions.this method will require you to drink large amounts of apple products.

@summary
go on a two-day apple juice fast.

@summary
take an olive oil and citrus juice mix on the second day.at 8:30 p.m. on the second day, mix ½ cup of olive oil with ½ cup of lemon juice or ¾ cup of grapefruit juice.

@summary
go to bed immediately.it may feel too early to go to bed, but it’s important to keep to the schedule for this liver flush.

@summary
drink a saltwater mixture in the morning of the third day.dissolve two teaspoons of un-iodized sea salt into 4 cups of warm water.
@article
 While apples are perfectly healthy in moderation, in excess they add a lot of sugar to your system. If you have cancer, a yeast infection, diabetes, hypoglycemia or a stomach ulcer, do not use this method.
 For centuries, scientists have researched ways to treat gallstones without surgery. A liver flush is a "chemical contact" treatment, in which you consume chemicals that break up the gallstone from within.Many chemical contact treatments doctors tried throughout history had long-term negative side-effects on patients. The malic acid and liminoid found in apples, though, have relatively benign side effects that last a short amount of time.Don’t drink juices made from concentrate or that have added sugars. Look for natural apple products.
Keep the juice at room temperature, and mix it with warm water to further raise the temperature when you drink it.
Drink 16 oz. (2 cups) of organic apple juice or apple cider every 2 hours between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. on both days

, The juices should be freshly squeezed, not processed.


You may feel nauseous after drinking this mixture, but try to relax and see your way through it. You’ll feel better when the process is over!

, You’ve taken the olive oil and citrus juice mixture after about 36 hours of fasting, and now you need to go to bed. Remember to lay on your side to help the cleansing process.
 Again, you can substitute the juice from half a lemon if you don’t have sea salt.


Eat only vegetables and clear broths for the rest of the day. The nausea you felt the night before should pass once you get some food in your stomach, and you should pass your gallstones sometime during the third or fourth day.

