@summary
get a crotchet hook.

@summary
take the working yarn (not the hanging piece, called the tail) and place it over the hook.

@summary
repeat this 15-20 times until you have your desired length.

@summary
pick your width of pouch.

@summary
proceed your crocheting based on the following sizes:

@summary
single:

@summary
insert hook through the first loop hanging from it.keep repeating rows until you think your square is big enough to fold over to hold pencils.

@summary
cut a long piece of yarn off at the end of your last row so that you can have a leftover tail to stitch into the project.

@summary
fold your pouch hot dog style and sew up the edges with yarn that can blend in to the project.

@summary
grab your crochet needle and thread the yarn through the eye.loop a knot at the end of the seam.

@summary
stitch in any tails left in the piece.
@article
 Tie a loop in the yarn and insert the hook in it.
 Hook the yarn through the loop you made., For longer pouches, you can repeat a few more times if you want.

Now you have a long chain of loops! That's good--this is how long your piece is going to be length wise. The width is determined by the following steps.
 If you want a standard pouch, use single crochet. A medium pouch, double crochet. A jumbo pouch? Treble crochet. Once you picked your size, it's time to start crocheting.,
Snag the working yarn (held in other hand) with the hook and pull it through that same loop. (There should be 2 yarn threads on the crochet hook).
Snag the working yarn again and pull it through those 2 loops.
Insert into next loop and repeat until the end.
At the last loop, chain 1 (snag working yarn and pull it through loop on the hook) and repeat the same process.
(You chain 1 after every row or else you won't get a square pencil pouch.)



Double:

Wrap yarn two times around hook and then insert the hook through the first loop hanging from it.
Snag working yarn with hook and pull it through that loop. There should be three loops on the crochet hook.
Yarn over again and pull it through two loops on the hook.
Yarn over again and pull it through the last two loops.
Yarn over 2x and repeat this for the whole row.
At the end, chain 2.
Begin all other rows with wrapping the yarn twice around the hook and ending rows by chaining 2.



Triple:

Wrap yarn three times at beginning of row. Snag working yarn and pull it through the first loop hanging from the hook. There should be four loops on the crochet hook.
Yarn over and pull hook through first two loops.
Yarn over and pull hook through second two loops.
Yarn over and pull hook through last two loops.
Yup. There it is!
Yarn over three times and repeat for whole row.
At the end, chain 3.
Begin all other rows w/wrapping the yarn 3x around the hook and ending rows by chaining three.
, If you cut off too little a piece, your pencil pouch could unravel! Maybe 4–5 inches (10.2–12.7 cm) long is good enough., Most preferably, stick with the same yarn, but if you're a beginner, you might want to use a contrasting color so you can see the stitches., Make whip stitches all the way up each side. (Think over, under, over, under.),, It's best to use the tails to tie a knot with the project and cut off the remaining yarn.

The top will be open. If you want a zipper, there are some that can be stitched in. However, sewing in a button or multiple buttons can work just as well. Make it your own.

