@summary
don’t listen to the experts.

@summary
match the number of slides to the subject matter.some topics require a few slides and a lot of exposition.

@summary
tailor your slideshow to your audience.if you're presenting highly detailed or technical information to a group of people who are very familiar with the industry terms and metrics that you're presenting, you might include a lot of slides that you move through rather quickly, but which are necessary to provide supporting material and demonstrate that you know what you’re talking about.

@summary
think about the venue you’re presenting in.if you’re presenting in a large venue like an auditorium but you only have a small projection screen for your powerpoint slides, you should minimize the importance and number of your slides and focus instead on the spoken aspect of your presentation.
@article
 Everyone seems to have their own idea of how many slides is enough.Some people think five slides is enough for thirty minutes,others think ten is enough for twenty minutes, and still others think ninety or more could be right for twenty minutes. In fact, each presentation is different, and needs to be approached on its own merits.


One well-known formulation for PowerPoint presentations is the 10/20/30 rule. This rule dictates that you should use about ten slides for a twenty minute presentation, and each slide should utilize thirty point font. In other words, each slide should be about two minutes in length.Perhaps the 10/20/30 rule works for you. If it does not, don’t feel as if you’re using the wrong number of slides.
Others argue that an average slide should be onscreen for no more than two minutes, and can be onscreen for as little as 15 seconds., Other topics require many slides with only minimal explanation. For example, if your presentation is on a particular product or a single beautiful landscape, then many slides containing photographs may be more effective than a few slides featuring text. Think about how you can combine a number of text-based slides into a few image-based slides with some accompanying text, and vice versa.
 If you’re presenting the same data to a high-school business class, you might need to condense the slides you’re presenting and edit the presentation so that you can explain each concept in language which the layman will understand.
 Similarly, if you’re presenting outside or in a brightly-lit environment, you might want to consider keeping the number of slides in your presentation to a minimum since they might be too hard to see in the glare.


If, on the other hand, you’re in a more intimate environment and can control the lighting, you might be inclined to utilize a greater number of slides. As always, however, don’t feel obligated to use many slides just because you can.

