@summary
search for a marine career college program that relates to architecture if you are unable to find a suitable marine architecture program.

@summary
go the marine engineering route if you prefer.

@summary
earn a college degree.

@summary
apply for a job with a private company or with the u.s. military.

@summary
discuss construction data and needs with other marine engineers and architects.

@summary
use computers and other technology in marine design.

@summary
understand physics and marine engineering concepts to incorporate buoyancy and stability factors into designs.

@summary
test designs and build models according to national and international standards.

@summary
supervise construction of the building of marine crafts according to marine architecture specifications.

@summary
take the professional engineer review course (perc) offered by the society of naval architects & marine engineers (sname) if you plan on pursuing professional engineer (p.e.),

@summary
pursue a graduate degree in a marine engineering or architecture if you are interested in teaching or research and development.

@article
 Some related programs include:


Applied Marine Physics.
Applied Ocean Science.
Coastal and Oceanographic Engineering.
Coastal Engineering.
Naval Architecture.;
, Marine architecture and engineering overlap in many ways. Some marine engineering programs are:


Ocean Engineering or Mechanical and Ocean Engineering.
Marine Engineering.
Naval Engineering.
Ocean and Resources Engineering.
Physical Ocean Science & Engineering.
Water Resources Engineering.
Structural Engineering.
 More than 94 percent of marine architects have at least some college and most have a degree.


Include mathematics and statistics in your studies.
 Marine architects are particularly needed by:


United States Coast Guard.
United States Navy.
Naval Sea Systems Command.



Good oral and written communication skills are a must.
Technical writing skills are important and include product performance requirements.
Teamwork is an integral part of a marine architect's job.



Specialized software is used in drafting and drawing prototypes.



These concepts further affect the design of propulsion machinery, piping, heating and ventilation and boiler rooms.
Gather and analyze scientific data on the effect of size, draft and displacement.



Reading blueprints and other technical drawings with accuracy and comprehension is invaluable.



Safety and efficiency are key concepts for those working in marine or naval architecture.
 licensure.


The PERC course is offered only once per year, but 98 percent of those who take the course pass the P.E. exam.
