@summary
gather the necessary materials.

@summary
insert the galvanized nail near the middle of the potato.

@summary
insert the copper coin into the potato about an inch away from the galvanized nail.

@summary
connect one clip to the copper coin and one lead of the voltmeter.

@summary
connect the second clip to the galvanized nail and the remaining lead of the voltmeter.

@summary
check the reading on the voltmeter.
@article
 To make a single potato battery you will need a potato, a galvanized nail, a copper coin, two alligator clip leads with clips on both ends, and a voltmeter.


Galvanized nails are standard nails that have a zinc coating. They can be purchased at any hardware or home improvement store.
Use a fresh potato as the experiment depends upon the juices inside the potato.;
, Push the nail into the potato until it is almost to the other side. It’s okay if you push it all the way through, just pull it back until it no longer sticks out of the other end.








Some juice will come out of the potato during this step, but that’s okay.
Cover your work surface with plastic or newspaper to avoid getting potato juice everywhere.
 Repeat the previous step with the copper coin. Make sure that the nails are not touching within the potato. If they touch, the circuit will not be complete and the battery will not produce any voltage.









If the nails do end up touching, simply reposition them so they are no longer touching.
The distance between the nails does not need to be exactly one inch, but you want them to be close together.
 The voltmeter should have a black lead and red lead. Connect the copper coin to the red lead of the voltmeter using the alligator clips.








Some voltmeters have black and yellow leads instead of black and red. In this case, use the yellow lead for this step.
 The galvanized nail should be connected to the black lead of the voltmeter.








Make sure the alligator clip is securely attached to both the nail and the lead.
 You should see a small increase in voltage on the voltmeter. You may notice that the voltmeter is reading a negative value. If this is the case, simply switch the clips on the voltmeter leads and it should change to a positive voltage.









If the voltage is very low, try moving the nails closer together. Again, make sure they are not touching within the potato.

