@summary
keep pets near entrances when you leave home.if there’s a fire at your home while you’re away, you’ll want to ensure that your pet is found quickly.

@summary
use monitored smoke alarms.if you’re not home and a fire occurs, you’d never know it.

@summary
place crates near your home’s entrance.when a fire starts and smoke fills your home, your pet might be scared and confused.

@summary
use a pet alert window cling.a pet alert window cling is a small reusable sticker or hanging sign that you can place in your window to indicate to emergency responders how many pets are in your home.

@summary
practice a fire drill with your pets.after developing a fire drill for your home, practice the escape route with your pet frequently.

@summary
place your dog house at a distance from the house.if your dog has a doghouse, it might head there for safety when a fire breaks out.
@article
 When you leave your pets home alone, keep them as close to the front of the house as possible.


Dogs are easily contained using baby gates.
Cats are more difficult to contain because of their jumping abilities. Place your cats as close to the front of the home as possible and close all the bedroom doors.
Additionally, keep collars and leashes on a rack near the entrance of the home in case you need to get your pets out of your home in a hurry. This will also let firefighters know that there are pets in the home, as well as give them a way to safely remove your pets in the event of a fire.
 Monitored smoke alarms automatically alert local fire departments and emergency responders that there is smoke in your home. These emergency responders then call you or go to the home directly. Using monitored smoke alarms protects your pets even when you aren’t around.
 Pets often associate their crates with safety, and retreat there when a disaster strikes. If your pets are already in their crates when emergency crews arrive, they can be more quickly and easily removed to safety.
 Most pet alert window clings have a blank space for a numeral next to the words “Dog(s),” and “Cat(s),” with another line for “Other.” Enter the appropriate information on your pet alert window cling and place it in your window or glass storm door.
 Use a simple keyword your pet can associate with the fire drill. For instance, you might say “Go, go go!” to your pet to indicate it’s time to evacuate. Then, put your pet on a leash and calmly walk them through the fire drill.


Don’t panic when practicing (or actually performing) the fire drill or your pet will be scared. A scared pet will have trouble remembering where to go during the evacuation procedure and could try to escape or run back into the house.
Practice the fire escape frequently to ensure your pet doesn’t forget it. Reward your pet with a treat after it successfully practices the fire drill with you.
Dogs are the most easily trained pets, and most likely to respond to and retain fire drill training.
 Keep your dog’s house free of dry leaves, grass, and other flammable materials. Ensure the doghouse is placed at least 20 meters (60 feet) from your home, and is not surrounded by trees, logs, or other flammable materials.

