@summary
understand how the average profits method is applied.under this method, goodwill is equal to the average profits for a set time period, multiplied by the number of years.

@summary
adjust the numbers before you make the calculations.

@summary
do the math.

@summary
let's say there was a company that had these profits (in the associated years): 2010: $200,000; 2011: $220,000; 2012: $190,000; 2013: $210,000.

@summary
add the goodwill to the fair market value of the business.
@article
 This is the simplest and the most common method to calculate goodwill.


To summarize the formula: Goodwill = Average Profits X Number of Years.
For example, if you used the average annual profits of the years 2010-14, you would multiply the average by 5.;
, Make sure that you make the following adjustments before computing average profits:Any abnormal profits should be deducted from the net profits in the year that they were earned.
Any abnormal losses should be added back to the net profits in the year they were incurred.
Non-operating incomes (e.g., income from investments) should be deducted from the net profits of the year that they were earned.
 Start by determining the average profits for the years under consideration. To find average profits, you add together the profits of all the years and divide by 4 (the number of years).
 You would first add these numbers together to get $820,000.

Divide the sum ($820,000) by the number of years, which in this case is four. The result is the average. In this case, the average profits equals $205,000.
As Goodwill is equal to the average profit over a given span of years multiplied by the number of years, Goodwill would equal $820,000. In this case, Goodwill was really just the aggregated total of profits from the given years. In the real world, abnormal costs and profits would have altered the result.
 If making a purchase offer for a business, this Goodwill amount could be added to the fair market value of the business, or its assets minus its liabilities. In this case, Goodwill is a premium over the fair market value of the business that reflects the average profits the business earns over several years.

