@summary
drink plenty of water.dehydration is one of the most common causes of dry mouth.

@summary
avoid or limit caffeinated beverages.caffeine is a diuretic, which means it promotes fluid loss.

@summary
eat sour foods.sour foods stimulate the salivary glands, so consuming these can help if you are struggling with dry mouth.

@summary
add sauces and gravies to your dishes.

@summary
eat soft, moist foods.these foods will require less chewing, and be more comfortable to swallow than dry, crunchy, or chewy foods like tough meats and crusty breads.

@summary
sip water when you eat.because dry mouths lack saliva, the condition can make it more difficult or painful to swallow food.
@article
 Sipping water can also help to relieve dry mouth when it is caused by disease or as a side effect of medication.Doctors recommend drinking eight to twelve 8-ounce glasses of water each day to keep hydrated.Drinking too much water, however, can actually dissolve the mucus lining of the mouth and worsen the symptoms of dry mouth. If you feel the need to drink excessive amounts of water to soothe your dry mouth, ask a doctor about other options.
You can also dissolve (not crunch) ice chips in your mouth in addition to sipping water.;
, For this reason, caffeine can worsen the symptoms of dry mouth. Make sure to drink plenty of water and avoid coffee, tea, and certain sodas if you suffer from dry mouth.
 Some sour foods (such as citrus fruits) are also good sources of vitamin C.


Too much acid from sour foods, however, can wear away the enamel of your teeth, increasing your risk of tooth decay. To reduce this risk, sip water as you eat sour foods.
 If you suffer from dry mouth, your ability to swallow solid foods may be affected. Try adding liquid-based additives like sauces and gravies to your recipes to make “rough” solid foods easier to swallow., Good choices include:


Yogurt
Pudding
Canned fruit
Mashed vegetables
Casseroles made with a broth or sauce base
Thinned cereals, such as oatmeal
Soups and stews
Fruit smoothies
Soft cooked meats such as boiled chicken

, If you make sure to sip water while eating, however, it can make things easier and help keep you hydrated. Try taking a sip of water, then a bite of food, then have another sip of water.

