@summary
complete mandatory college-level courses.

@summary
provide valid documentation that you have been actively employed as a licensed, full time real estate salesperson in california for the equivalent of 2 years.

@summary
obtain the california real estate broker examination application from the california department of real estate (dre) or their website.

@summary
get fingerprinted.

@summary
submit your broker license application (re 200), live scan service request (re 237) and required fees within 1 year of passing the exam to receive your california real estate license.
@article
 These course are generally available at community colleges, California public universities, private real estate schools and correspondence schools.


Before you can become a California real estate broker, you must have successfully completed state mandated course of Legal Aspects of Real Estate, Real Estate Practice, Real Estate Economics, Real Estate Appraisal, Real Estate Accounting, Real Estate Principals, Real Estate Finance,.
You must also successfully complete 3 of the following courses: Property Management, Business Law, Mortgage Loan Brokering and Lending, Real Estate Office Administration, Advanced Legal Aspects of Real Estate, Advanced Real Estate Appraisal, Advanced Real Estate Finance, Computer Applications in Real Estate, Common Interest Developments or Escrow Management,;
, This is done using Employment Verification (RE 226) form which is prepared by your employing broker or salesperson.
 Complete and submit with the required fees to the California Department of Real Estate (DRE).


The California Real Estate Broker Examination lasts 5 hours and is divided into 2 sessions of 2 1/2-hours. Each session includes 100 multiple choice questions.
California Real Estate Broker Examinations are administered at California Broker Examination facilities located in Fresno, San Diego, Los Angeles, Oakland, and Sacramento.
California Real Estate Broker Examination scheduling dates are based on the volume of California Real Estate Broker Examination applications received. Availability varies depending on the how much seating is provided and the number of applicants requesting that site.
Passing the California Real Estate Broker Examination requires that you answer at least 75% of the questions correctly. If you took the electronic (computerized) test, you will receive your test results as you exit the testing facility. Otherwise, they will be mailed to you within 5 business days.
 All California real estate broker applicants are required to submit a complete set of fingerprints through an approved Live Scan provider with their Broker License Application.
 Your license will be issued after the California Department of Real Estate (DRE) receives the Live Scan fingerprint response information.

