@summary
opt for a liquid formula with a heavier texture.liquid foundation tends to look fresher on dark complexions because they blend more easily into the skin, allowing your natural skin tone to shine through.

@summary
choose a semi-matte formula.dark skin tones reflect light very well, which gives you a natural looking glow.

@summary
shop premium brands for the widest shade selection.unfortunately, many of the cheaper drugstore brands of foundation are still somewhat limited in their shade ranges.

@summary
select a concealer that is lighter than your foundation shade.it’s often assumed that your concealer shade should match your foundation shade.
@article
 Furthermore, those with darker complexions tend to experience hyperpigmentation and irregularities in skin tone, especially around the mouth area.


Liquid foundations with heavier textures allow for buildable coverage, so you can even out your skin tone where you need to., Avoid foundations with glow-inducing formulas, which may end up looking greasy. Instead, opt for foundations with semi-matte finishes. A semi-matte finish can help to balance out your natural glow so there won’t be too much shine.


Check the product label to find out what kind of finish it provides.
A completely matte formula on darker complexions can end up looking cakey. A semi-matte finish is the best choice.
 This is a problem that those with darker complexions are probably very familiar with. Limited shade options have long been an issue in cosmetic lines because dark complexions are very nuanced in color and tone.However, some of the higher end foundation brands are beginning to vastly expand the range of shades they offer for darker complexions.
If you are having trouble finding your perfect shade in the drugstore, check the higher end brands at department stores and specialty boutiques.
 However, because irregular pigmentation and dark under-eye circles are typical problems for those with darker complexions, matching the two products isn’t ideal.


When choosing a concealer, opt for something one or two shades lighter than your foundation for best results.

