@summary
remember to yield to both lanes of traffic in a multi-lane roundabout.if you know you'll be turning right, and hence staying in the rightmost lane, but you see an oncoming car in the left lane, wait for it to pass before entering the roundabout.

@summary
choose which lane to enter based on which direction you want to exit.

@summary
never drive next to, or attempt to pass, a large vehicle or truck on a multi-lane roundabout.

@summary
stay in your lane at all times.

@summary
never, ever stop in the middle of a roundabout.

@summary
navigate the roundabout as a cyclist.

@summary
navigate the roundabout as a pedestrian.
@article
 Although frowned on, the car could merge into your lane just as you are entering the roundabout, causing an accident.
 In multi-lane roundabouts, which usually have three or more possible exits, the lane you choose to drive in is dictated by the kind of turn you want to make:


Occupy the left lane if you decide to turn left, make a U-turn, or go straight.
Occupy the right lane if you deice to turn run or go straight.
Look for signs indicating the allowed movements for each lane. These signs are usually located above or alongside the road and/or arrows painted on the road itself.
 Large trucks have a larger turning radius, making them one of the more dangerous obstacles in a roundabout. Always give them ample room to turn by staying behind them a bit more than you ordinarily would with passenger vehicles.
 Never change lanes while in a multi-lane roundabout.
 A roundabout is like an intersection, through which traffic is continuously flowing. Stopping in the middle of a roundabout will cause congestion and increase the likelihood of an accident.
 If you are cycling through a roundabout, you have two options:


Enter the roundabout as if you were a vehicle. Remain centered in your lane to be most visible and avoid being cut off by other vehicles.
If you are uncomfortable riding your bicycle through the roundabout, exit the roadway and use the crosswalks.
 If you wish to cross the roundabout as a pedestrian, follow these steps:


Look to your left and cross when there is a safe gap in traffic.
Stop when you reach the splitter island.
Look to your right and cross when there is a safe gap in traffic.

