@summary
avoid scams.

@summary
identify reputable sources for at-home jobs.

@summary
think outside of the box.

@summary
learn how to package yourself.think about the skills one needs to work at home.
@article
 Oftentimes, when you see an ad that says “Earn thousands of dollars from your comfy couch,” “Want to work in your pajamas?,” or “Set your own hours working at-home,” you automatically assume it is a scam, right? If it seems too good to be true, then it probably is. Yet, with the growth of the digital and global marketplace, more and more companies are trying to hire at-home help. Learn how to distinguish between reputable job ads and scams.


Scams normally ask for a lot of personal information up front. Many people are desperate for jobs these days. The hope of future employment can make you vulnerable to scam artists. Don’t give up your personal information like your social security number, birthdate, or bank information until you have actually signed and thoroughly read a contract.
Many scams also ask you to invest money up front, pay for “certification” in their program, or complete a certain amount of work for free during a “training” period. Don’t fork over your money ahead of time without a signed guarantee of return payment. If it really is a scam, they’ll take your money or benefit from your time and then just abandon you.;
, Many online news sourcesand career-building websitescompile lists of reputable at-home job sources. These websites can be found through basic internet searches. Just be sure to avoid websites for services you’ve never heard of before.
 Many businesses in your local area might be open to at-home positions and not know it. Jobs that require a lot of typing or editing can be great work for at-home workers. Think about becoming a medical or legal transcriptionist.


Similarly, positions that require help with schedules, like personal assistants, can be done online and over the phone. Pay for virtual assistants can range from $15 an hour to over $100 an hour.Do you speak more than one language? Many websites build content in multiple languages and look for people who can edit their multilingual content.
Do you have great people skills and know a lot about traveling? Consider being a travel agent from the comfort of your own home. Many booking companies hire at-home workers to answer phone calls and work with customers online.Think beyond traditional typing and communication. Some companies are hiring at-home workers to test recipes for cookbooks and cooking shows. Others want people to create online visual content such as short videos on exercising properly, car maintenance, or gardening. In short, think about what you accomplish at home on a regular basis, then consider what companies could benefit from these activities. , Just like with any job, when talking to a potential employer emphasize those skills outlined in the job ad. Then focus on what makes an efficient employee who works from home. Emphasize organization skills and what elements of your home lend themselves to occupational success. Do you have dedicated space to work from home? Do you have a phone and internet access?

