@summary
put the chocolate chips into a wide, shallow microwave-safe bowl.it is important that the container you use remains cool or very slightly warm after several minutes of microwaving, otherwise, the container itself will overheat the chocolate.

@summary
microwave the chocolate on medium power for 1 minute, then give it a stir.you can stir the chocolate with a rubber spatula or a spoon, but make sure that whatever you use is dry.

@summary
continue heating the chocolate at 10 to 15-second intervals, stirring between each one, until it is almost melted.

@summary
take the chocolate out of the microwave and continue stirring the chocolate until it turns smooth.

@summary
use your chocolate.
@article
 The container must also be perfectly dry, as any moisture will cause the chocolate to harden and become grainy.


If you can’t comfortably handle the container after several minutes of microwaving, then it isn’t a suitable container for melting chocolate.
If you can't find any chocolate chips, cut a chocolate bar into ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide chunks instead.
If you are planning on melting large amounts of chocolate, consider working in smaller batches instead.
 Also, keep in mind that every microwave oven is different, so your chocolate may not be melted completely after this. That is perfectly fine; you can always continue heating the chocolate in short bursts.


Chocolate doesn't lose its shape when you microwave it, so stirring it will help make it smooth and more liquid-y., Milk chocolate and white chocolate tend to overheat quicker than dark chocolate. It would be best to stir them every 10 seconds.This may sound tedious, but it will reduce the chances of any scorching. Remember, chocolate will keep its shape when heated in the microwave, so stirring it up will help it "melt."How long you end up cooking the chocolate also depends on how much you are working with. For example:

1 ounce (30 grams) will take 1 minute total.
8 ounces (225 grams) will take 3 minutes total.
1 pound (450 grams) may take up to 6 minutes.
 Once the chocolate is mostly melted, take the bowl out of the microwave, and set it down onto a heat-safe surface. Continue stirring the chocolate, scrapping the bottom and sides of the bowl often, until it is smooth and no chunks remain., At this point, you can also add in any other extra ingredients that the recipe calls for, such as shortening or paraffin.

