@summary
bet on a two-way moneyline.a two-way moneyline is a bet based on the 90 minutes of primary game time, excluding penalty shootouts, golden goals, or overtime.

@summary
bet on a three-way moneyline.the three-way moneyline is just like the two-way moneyline except that there is an added option to bet on a draw between the two teams.

@summary
place a bet on totals.betting on totals means making a guess as to the average goal count per team in a game.

@summary
bet on goal lines.betting on goal lines means making a bet based on what the difference in two teams’ scores will be.

@summary
make a split bet.a variation of the goal lines bet is the split bet.
@article
 In this betting arrangement, bettors will bet on one team winning and another team losing. If the team you bet on wins, you will receive a payout. If the team you bet on loses, you will have lost your bet.


This type of bet is also known as “draw, no bet.”

, Compared to the two-way moneyline, three-way bets usually have lower odds.
 These bets are usually made as “under 2.5,” “over 2.5,” or over/under some other number. This means that you are betting that the average goals per team in the game will be over or under 2.5 (or some other close value).


For instance, assume you made a bet that totals would be under 2.5. If both teams scored three goals, the total will be six. Divided by two (the number of teams in the game), you end up with the number three. In that case, you would lose the bet, since the total was above 2.5, not below.
 Like bets on totals, these bets are made as an over/under statement, typically “under 0.5,” “over 0.5,” or over/under some similar value.


For instance, if you bet “over 2.5” on a game, it means that you believe the winning team will be victorious by at least three goals.
When betting on goal lines, you usually need to call the bet as well by indicating which team you think will win. For instance, you might bet, “France +2.5 goals,” meaning you believe France will win the game by at least three goals.
Keep the over/under value relatively low. The higher the goal line bet you make, the riskier it is to win it.
This type of bet is also known as betting on point spreads.
 In this model, you might bet on over/under two close numbers. For instance, a split bet might be “over 2 / 2.5.” This means half the money you pay is on a bet that assumes the total goal difference between the two teams will be over two goals, and the other half of your money is bet on an outcome in which the difference between the two goal totals is greater than 2.5.


Sometimes you will get refunded and win the other half of the bet. If you bet over 2 / 2.5, for instance, and the game ends with a score of 2-0, you will get a refund for half the bet’s value and lose the other half of your bet, since the point spread was not over 2.5, and landed exactly on 2.

