@summary
wash your hands and feet regularly.washing your hands and feet regularly with warm water and soap (including washing your feet at least once a day when you have a shower) helps to keep them clean.

@summary
trim your nails regularly.it is important to clip your nails regularly to keep them short.

@summary
keep your nails natural.as much as nail polish and artificial nails may seem aesthetically appealing, they trap additional moisture in your nails and actually increase your risk of developing a fungal infection.

@summary
be aware that fungal infections can spread from one nail to another.therefore, if you have developed a fungal infection on one nail, it is important to wash your hands whenever you touch that nail to minimize the chances that the infection will spread from one nail to your other nails.

@article
 This, in turn, minimizes the chance that a fungal infection will grow on your nails. Make sure that you wash between your fingers and toes, as well as over the nails themselves. Regular and thorough washing is one of the best things you can do for prevention.;
, This minimizes the surface area upon which fungi can grow, and it also decreases the moisture and dirt that can get trapped under long nails. Regular trimming increases the hygiene of your nail environment, hence reducing the probability of developing a fungal infection.
 Avoid nail polish and artificial nails if possible. Also, if you attend a nail salon for regular nail maintenance, ensure that it is a reliable one that keeps their instruments very clean, so as not to increase your chances of infection in any way.


If you are concerned about nail fungus but want to still go for a pedicure or manicure, it is okay to do so. The cleaning and trimming of your nails can actually be beneficial.
However, you are advised to forego the nail polish at the end. Your nails can still look nice and presentable after a pedicure or manicure, even without nail polish.
Also avoid artificial nails or any artistic decorations on your nails.
