@summary
read the recipe closely.directions for simmering vary from recipe to recipe.

@summary
set the heat to medium-low for a gradual simmer.place the dish you're cooking on the burner and start off at a medium to low heat.

@summary
observe the amount of bubbles rising to the surface.

@summary
test for a temperature between 185°f (85°c) and 205°f (96°c) .if you have a cooking thermometer, you can always test the liquid to find out if you’ve achieved a simmer.

@summary
regulate the heat to maintain a constant simmer.once you've reached the simmering point, you will need to adjust the heat between medium-low and low to maintain a constant simmer.
@article
 In most cases, a recipe will suggest one of two ways to do it. It may ask you to bring the liquid of a dish to a simmer, which means to slowly bring the liquid to just below boiling point over low heat. The other common direction is to bring the liquid of a dish to the boiling point first, and then reduce it to a simmer. The two techniques yield different results, so it’s important to practice them properly.


To simmer means to bring a liquid to a temperature that is just below the boiling point – somewhere between 185°F (85°C) and 205°F (96°C).The boiling point of liquid in cooking is approximately 212°F (100°C).;
, Stay near the stovetop, since you will probably need to adjust the heat up or down as the liquid is brought up to a simmer. It’s a good rule of thumb to never turn your back on a simmer in progress until you’re sure you’ve reached a point of constant simmering.









Experiment with a pot of water if you want to practice first.
Try out different heat settings to get a feel for how the cooking liquid appears at different temperatures.
 You know something is simmering when there are pockets of tiny, continuous bubbles breaking the surface with irregular wisps of steam. Simmering is most commonly used to allow the flavors of a dish to infuse and to slow-cook meats until they are tender.









A “slow simmer” is when a couple of tiny bubbles erupt every 1 or 2 seconds. A slow simmer is most often used to slow-cook stocks.
A “rapid simmer” happens when larger pockets of small, continuous bubbles erupt at the surface, displaying wisps of steam, with larger bubbles beginning to show.
A rapid simmer is sometimes referred to as a gentle boil; it's mostly used to thicken liquid into sauce., Most people don’t use a thermometer – they gauge by observation. You'll get more experienced at this as you go along.









Temperatures between 185°F (85°C) and 205°F (96°C) are considered simmering.
The range is relatively high because there are different levels of simmering, starting with a slow simmer and going up to a rapid simmer., Slightly adjust the heat up or down as needed. Once you’ve achieved a steady simmer, you will still need to stir the liquid occasionally.









Whenever you introduce new ingredients to simmering liquid, the heat will definitely need to be adjusted.
Some liquids and sauces require more frequent stirring than others. Check your recipe for details.
Stay at your stove to supervise during this initial stage until you get a feel for how often it needs to be stirred.

