@summary
take cayenne pepper capsules.cayenne capsules are available at varying levels of concentration.

@summary
take a cayenne tincture.a cayenne tincture is a special mixture of cayenne extract plus other ingredients like alcohol, water, coconut, or another natural extract.

@summary
mix cayenne pepper powder with water.add one teaspoon of cayenne pepper to half a cup of lukewarm water.

@summary
mix tomato juice and cayenne powder.combine eight ounces of low-sodium tomato juice (or any other vegetable juice) with one teaspoon of cayenne.

@summary
make a cayenne morning drink.mix a quarter cup of crushed or diced ginger, a quarter cup of lemon juice, a quarter cup of cranberry juice, one teaspoon of cayenne powder, and 3/4 cup of water.
@article
 Most supplements offer 400 – 600 milligrams of cayenne per pill. Talk to a trained medical professional to help decide which concentration is right for you, and use the capsules as directed.


Cayenne capsules are a good option for people who can’t handle the spicy taste of cayenne peppers or powder.;
, Shake the tincture bottle well before use. While specific directions for use vary, you can generally take one teaspoon of the tincture three times each day orally.


Always use the tincture as directed.
 Mix the solution with a spoon, fork, or straw. Drink the mixture daily to lower your blood pressure.


If you wish to make a bigger batch of cayenne pepper water, you could adjust the proportions. For instance, you could add two teaspoons of cayenne pepper to one cup of water and mix the solution.
If you wish to dilute the mixture, you could mix the cayenne pepper with one or two cups of water rather than just half a cup of water.
 Stir the mixture well. Drink once daily.


If you find the whole teaspoon adds too much spice, you could use a half or a quarter teaspoon instead; however, the reduction in your blood pressure might not be as noticeable or happen as quickly.
If you wish to increase the impact of this mixture, you could drink it three times each day instead of just once each day.
 Shake in a closed water bottle with ice cubes or mix in a blender.

