@summary
use a wide-toothed comb on wet hair.after washing your hair, never use a regular hairbrush on it.

@summary
invest in a high-wattage ionic blow dryer.the heat and ionic technology work hand-in-hand to cut drying time in half and seal the hair cuticle so that it lays down flat.

@summary
buy a smoothing serum.smoothing serums combat dry and frizzy hair by smoothing out the hair cuticle, forcing it to lay down flat.

@summary
get a brush with a mix of boar and nylon bristles.boar bristles help distribute natural oils from the scalp to the ends of your hair.
@article
 This will cause a lot of breakage. Instead, use a wide-toothed comb to gently detangle your strands. If you don’t have a wide-toothed comb when you get out of the shower, use your fingers to comb through your hair. A wide-toothed comb can help you separate your waves and define your hair style, as well.


Use a wide-toothed comb in the shower to evenly distribute conditioner through your hair.
If you use any hair products on wet or damp hair, use a wide-toothed comb to disperse them evenly.
 A sealed, flat hair cuticle will never look frizzy. Use the blow dryer on its medium heat setting. Avoid the high setting, which will make the hair cuticle swell. Try to get an ionic blow dryer that is at least 1500 watts.


Don't shut off the blow dryer until hair is completely dry.
Don’t blow dry your hair in the bathroom. The steam from your recent shower creates a humid, frizz-inducing environment. Do it in another room or wait until the bathroom has returned to a normal temperature., Serums also create shine and protect your hair from environmental damage. These products should be applied to damp hair right before blow drying. A tiny drop of serum can tame fly-aways and frizz on dry hair, too.


Invest in a smoothing serum that lists Argan or Moroccan oil in the ingredients. These hydrating ingredients will provide frizzy hair with an added dose of moisture.
Make sure your serum doesn’t have alcohol listed as an ingredient. Alcohol is drying and damaging, which creates frizz.
 This natural oil, called sebum, deeply hydrates the hair shaft, which can drastically reduce frizz. The nylon bristles help to detangle your hair gently while the boar bristles moisturize it by distributing the sebum. Brush from root to tip with each stroke to properly distribute the oils.

Immediately after you brush wavy hair with boar bristles, it will probably puff up a bit. Gently twist your stands, which will relax them and they'll smooth out naturally.

